  __________   T   H   E      L   E   G   E   N   D     O   F
 /\         \    _________  ____       _________   _________
 \ \_____    \  /\    ____\/\   \     /\    __  \ /\    ___ \
  \/_____/   /  \ \   \___/\ \   \    \ \  \   \  \ \   \  \ \
        /   /    \ \   \___ \ \   \    \ \  \   \  \ \   \__\ \
       /   /_____ \ \    __\ \ \   \    \ \  \   \  \ \   ___  \
      /\         \ \ \   \_/__\ \   \____\ \  \__/  /\ \  \_/\  \
      \ \_________\ \ \_______\\ \________\ \______/  \ \__\\ \__\
       \/_________/  \/_______/ \/________/\/_____/    \/__/ \/__/
                  -= A   L I N K   T O   T H E   P A S T =-

,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
|           FAQ/Walkthrough  || Version 1.13 || June 18, 2004          |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|          by Michael Gonzalez (Coffee) <mpgonzalez@gmail.com>         |
|                  http://www.geocities.com/coffeefaqs                 |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'

Contents:
   1) Introduction
   2) Story
   3) Controls
   4) Walkthrough
   5) Bosses
   6) Heart Piece Locations
   7) Items
   8) Secrets
   9) Credits & Info


Version 1.13 (06/18/2004)
- Changed email address (Gmail!)

Version 1.12 (03/13/2003)
- Removed game credits to avoid controversy :P

Version 1.11 (11/25/2002)
- Formatting changes
- Updated website URL

Version 1.1 (11/17/2002)
- Added game credits

Version 1.0 (03/30/2001)
- Ladies and gentlemen, the FAQ is done

Version 0.9 (03/23/2001)
- Walkthrough *almost* complete
- Heart Pieces are complete
- Expect another update very very soon!

Version 0.6 (12/31/2000):
- Walkthrough is done up to the Turtle Rock dungeon.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 1) INTRODUCTION                                                      |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


              - The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past -

What a game. This game was released way back in 1992 and I still find
myself coming back to it almost 10 years later. Can you think of any
other game that does that to you? Not many. Not many people will argue
with me when I say that The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past is still
one of the greatest games of all time.

I always say that Nintendo takes special pride in the Zelda series.
Every single Zelda game that Nintendo churns out is a finely tuned
gaming masterpiece. No matter what the system, no matter what the
limitations, it comes out as an amazing game. Nintendo has brought the
Zelda magic to 8-bit, 16-bit, 64-bit, and even portable systems. If you
ask me, I say that this one is the best.

The level design is the best of any game I've ever played, the graphics
are clean and colorful, the music is dramatic and memorable, and the
challenge is just right. It's perfect in almost every area, and it all
comes together to produce a pinnacle of all video gaming.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 2) STORY                                                             |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


[This is the excellent story taken directly from the instruction
booklet.  To see the full manual, check out www.world-of-nintendo.com.
For the full story of the legend of Zelda, check out The Zelda
Headquarters (http://www.zhq.com).]


To set the stage for this adventure of the legendary Hero of Hyrule, it
will be informative to delve into the Triforce myth, an ancient epic
about the creation of the world that is still believed in the land of
Hyrule. Every culture has such myths and theories about the creation of
their worlds, and it can be beneficial and entertaining to examine them
in detail, for they often affect the present day social structure. The
legends say the mythical gods of Hyrule had as their chosen people the
Hylia. These ancient people left scrolls that are the primary source of
the legends.


                      -= THE CREATION OF HYRULE =-


According to the Hylian scrolls, the mythical gods descended from a
distant nebula to the world and created order and life. The God of Power
dyed the mountains red with fire and created land. The God of Wisdom
created science and wizardry and brought order to nature. And the God of
Courage, through justice and vigor, created life - the animals that
crawl the land and the birds that soar in the sky. After the gods had
finsihed their work, they left the world, but not before creating a
symbol of their strength, a golden triangle known as the Triforce. A
small but powerful portion of the essence of the gods was held in this
mighty artifact, which was to guide the intelligent life on the world of
Hyrule.

Although it was an inanimate object, the Triforce had the power to
bestow three titles which gave the person who received them great
powers: "The Forger of Strength", "The Keeper of Knowledge", and "The
Juror of Courage". From its hiding place in the so-called Golden Land
where the Gods placed it, the Triforce beckoned people from the outside
world to seek it in the hope that someone worthy of these titles would
find it. With their magic infused blood, the Hylian people were endowed
with psychic powers and skill in wizardry. It was also said that their
long, pointed ears enabled them to hear special messages from the gods,
so they were heldin high esteem by many people in Hyrule. Their
descendants settled in various parts of the world and passed on their
knowledge and magical lore to all people. But in its passing, the lore
was often distorted or lost altogether.


                      -= GATES TO THE HOLY LAND =-


In Hyrule, there are many Hylian buildings which are mentioned
repeatedly in the legends. These buildings, which now lie in ruin, pale
shadows of their former splendor, are closely tied to the Triforce. Some
were even said to house the Triforce...

If it were only a symbol of the gods, the Triforce would be coveted by
many. But a verse from the Book of Mudora (a collection of Hylian
legends and lore) made the Triforce even more desirable:

                      In a realm beyond sight,
                      The Sky shines gold, not blue.
                      There, the Triorce's might
                      Makes mortal dreams come true.

Many aggressively searched for the wish-granting Triforce, but no one,
not even the Hylian sages, was sure of its location; the knowledge had
been lost over time. Some said the Triforce lay under the desert, others
said it was in the cemetary in the shadow of Death Mountain, but no one
ever found it. That yearning for the Triforce soon turned to lust for
power, which in turn led to the spilling of blood. Soon the only motive
left among those searching for the Triforce was pure greed.

One day, quite by accident, a gate to the Golden Land of the Triforce
was opened by a gang of thieves skilled in the black arts. This land was
like no other. In the gathering twilight, the Triforce shone from its
resting place high above the world. In a long running battle, the leader
of the thieves fought his way past his followers in a lust for the
Golden Power. After vanquishing his own followers, the leader stood
triumphant over the Triforce and grasped it with his blood-stained
hands. He heard a whispered voice: "If thou has a strong desire or
dream, wish for it..." And in reply, the roaring laughter of the brigand
leader echoed across time and space and even reached the far-off land of
Hyrule. The name of this king of thieves is Ganondorf Dragmire, but he
is known by his alias, Mandrag Ganon, which means Ganon of the Enchanted
Thieves.


                       -= THE IMPRISONING WAR =-


I do not know what Ganon wished for from the Triforce. However, in time
evil power begain to flow from the Golden Land and greedy men were drawn
there to become members of Ganon's army. Black clouds permanently
darkened the sky, and many disasters beset Hyrule. The lord of Hyrule
sent for the Seven Wise Men and the Knights Of Hyrule, and ordered them
to seal the enterance to the Golden Land.

The Triforce, being an inanimate object, cannot judge between good and
evil. Therefore, it could not know that Ganon's wishes were evil; it
merely granted them. Suspecting that Ganon's power was based on the
Triforce's magic, the people of Hyrule forged a sword resistant to
magic which could repulse even powers granted by the Triforce. This
mighty weapon became known as the blade of evil's bane, or the Master
Sword. It was so powerful that only one who was pure of heart and strong
of body could wield it. As the Seven Wise Men searched for a valient
person to take up the Master Sword, Ganon's evil army swarmed from the
tainted Golden Land into Hyrule and attacked the castle. The wise men
and the Knights Of Hyrule combined forces to wage war on this evil
horde.

The Knights took the full brunt of the fierce attack, and although they
fought courageously many a brave soul was lost that day, However, their
lives were not lost in vain, for they bought precious time for the Seven
Wise Men to magically seal ganon in the Golden land. All of Hyrule
rejoiced at the victory that upheld peace and order over Ganon's evil
and chaos. This war, which had claimed many lives, became known as the
Imprisoning War in stories told in later centuries.


                     -= THE COMING OF THE WIZARD =-


Many centuries have passed since the Imprisoning War. The land of Hyrule
healed its wounds and the people lived in peace for a long time.
Memories of the vicious Imprisoning War faded over the generations...

So it is no surprise that no one was prepared for the new disasters that
have recently struck Hyrule. Pestilence and drought, uncontrollable even
by magic, revaged the land. The king of Hyrule, after counsel with his
sages, ordered an investigation of the Imprisoned Dark World (as the
Golden land had come to be known) but the wise men's seal was apparently
intact. he offered rewards for anyone who could find the source of these
troubles. In answer to these summons a stranger named Agahnim came and
quelled the disasters with a previously unseen form of magic. As a
reward, the king gave him a new position as chief advisor and heir to
the Seven. Masses proclaimed him their hero. Peace had returned to
Hyrule... or had it?

Of late, rumors have traveled their whispering path with alarming
frequency. Rumors saying Agahnim now rules the country with his magic...
Rumors of strange magical experiments in the castle tower at night...
The people of Hyrule were gripped by dread.


                             -= PROLOGUE =-


One night, a girl's voice awakens you from your sleep.

She telepathically pleads.

You jump out of bed not knowing whether the voice was part of a dream or
reality. Upon leaving your bed, you find your uncle, who should be fast
asleep at this time, preparing to go out, girded for battle.

"I'll be back by moring," he says as he departs. "Don't leave the
house."

You watch him leave with the family sword in hand and shield on arm.
This night is like no other... Who is Zelda? Where had your uncle gone
and for what reason?

And so, on an ill-fated night, a new chapter in the legend of Hyrule's
hero begins- a new chapter in The Legend of Zelda!


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 3) CONTROLS                                                          |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


Control Pad - With the Control Pad you can move your character in eight
directions including up and down stairs. It's also used for moving the
cursor in menus.

A button - A multi-purpose button. It's used for picking up objects,
running (when you get the Pegasus Boots), talking to people, swimming
(when you get the flippers), reading signs, grasping, and opening
chests.

B button - Using the sword. Press and hold the button to charge the
sword, then release for a spin attack. It's also used to confirm
choices on the menu screens.

Y button - After you assign a weapon to this button at the sub-menu
screen, press Y to use it.

X button - Press to view the overworld map. If you're in a dungeon,
you'll view a dungeon map.

Start - Press to switch to the Sub Screen. You can then select items to
be used with the Y Button or check the status of your equipment.

Select - The select Button lets you end the game and save data.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 4) WALKTHROUGH                                                       |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< RESCUE THE PRINCESS >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                           -- LINK'S HOUSE --


"Help me. Please help me. I am a prisoner in the dungeon of the castle.
My name is Zelda. The wizard, Agahnim, has done something to the other
missing girls. Now only I remain. Agahnim has seized control of the
castle and is now trying to open the seven wise men's seal. I am in the
dungeon of the castle. Please help me."

Yes, your first task of the game is to save the princess. It's ironic, I
know. After you wake up, your uncle departs with the sword and tells you
not to leave the house. Yeah right. Take the lamp from the treasure
chest and go out.

Guards are restricting your area to a little space in front of the
castle. Go north from your home and cross the bridge to the castle.
There's a guard blocking the main entrance, so follow the stone path to
his right and go around the side of the castle until the path comes to a
dead end. Toss aside the bush (with the A button) and drop into the
hole.


                           -- HYRULE CASTLE --


You're now in the basement of Hyrule Castle. There's your uncle! Talk to
him and he'll give you your basic sword and shield. Apparently, he dies
at this point (I'm assuming that he died, since you can't talk to him
anymore, but you'll strangely see him again at the ending). Go onward
to the next room. Go collect a blue rupee from the chest at the right,
and get some magic power from under the pots (you'll need this magic for
the lamp). Go south and out the door.

You're back outside! Cut away a few bushes and enter the castle through
the main entrance, killing any guards you meet along the way.

Now this is royalty! The whole castle is swarming with guards, so always
be prepared. Enter the door at the right side. Continue following the
red carpet until you reach some stairs leading down with some statues at
the sides. Go down there into the Hyrule Castle dungeons.

Murder the guard in the room and collect the key that pops out of him.
Open the chest to get a map of the castle. You can press X at anytime to
see it. You your key to open the locked door and continue. This is a
rather fun room. I like hitting the guards with the sword so that they
fall into the bottomless pit. Bwa ha ha! Ahem -- continue through this
straight-forward room and go through the door at the rop left.

Kill the lone guard in this room to open up the doors. Head to the room
at the right. Open the chest and you'll recieve the boomerang, one of my
favorite items. It stuns enemies and returns to you without using up any
magic. Try it out on this guard! Defeat him to get a small key, then
return to the previous room. Use the key to go north through the locked
door. Then keep going until you reach the large room of B3.

Defeat the green solder. To defeat this semi-boss with the ball and
chain, I suggest throwing pots at him. It's much quicker and safer that
way. When he's defeated, get the big key and use it to open up Zelda's
cell. Talk to her. When she's done bitching, she'll follow you back up
to the first floor. Don't forget to get the rupees from that chest.

Make the journey all the way back to the first floor. You'll know that
it's the first floor when everything looks rich and royal again. Go
around to the large room you were in when you first entered the castle.
>From there, go up the stairs and north to the throne room. Go to the
back of this room and Zelda will give you instructions to help push from
the left. Get to the left side and push it to the right to reveal a
secret passageway! Get in there.

This is apparently the sewer system. And it's pretty dark. You can't see
more than a few feet in front of you. If you really want the whole room
to be lit up, use your lamp on the torch things in the rooms. Even that
light will go out in a few seconds. Beware of rats and go down the
stairs at the top right.

Snakes! Get past them and go even deeper down the stairs. The door here
is locked. Get the key from the chest at the right, then continue
north through the door.

After you get through the sewers, you'll be very close to the sanctuary.
Be careful! Keep going, the door is at the north side of this room. In
the next room, the door is locked...and the key is in one of the rats.
Yeech. Defeat the rats until you find the one with the key, then
continue through the door.

Ahh...a fully lit room feels so refreshing after those dark sewers you
just went through. But this is no time to relax. Push aside the blocks
at the north side and continue up the stairs. Keep going until you get
to the room with two switches. There's no real need to defeat any rats.
The correct switch to pull is the one at the RIGHT. Walk up to it, hold
a, then pull back to open the door. Don't pull the switch at the right
unless you want it to rain snakes. Go through this final door and you
will finally be in the sancuary.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE FIRST PENDANT >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                             -- SANCTUARY --


Zelda and the sage will tell you a lot of stuff about what's going on
and what you should be doing next. The sage tells you to go to Kakariko
Village to meet the elder there. Before you do that, open the treasure
chest to get a whole heart container, bringing your total capacity up to
4 hearts. Now get out of the sanctuary.

Hey, it stopped raining. Follow the first path south, then head west.
Remember that you can always look at the map (press X) to check your
position whenever you get lost. Right now you're going to the village
at the west side. Follow the dirt path until you get there.


                          -- KAKARIKO VILLAGE --


There are a lot of things for you to do in Kakariko Village. I'll just
discuss the important ones...

Get a bottle:
At the south side of the village there's a long vertically aligned
house. This is some kind of bar. There's a back entrance to this house,
even if you can't see it. Go in there through the back door. Toss aside
the pot and open the treasure chest...there's a bottle inside! This will
be useful for storing all kinds of neat stuff.

Get another bottle:
In the village there's a merchant sitting on the floor selling a wide
variety of goods. Well, actually, all he sells is bottles...and he only
has one for the low low price of 100 rupees. If you have the money, get
it from him! If not, just come back later.

Get the bug catching net:
In the center of the village, there's a house with a blue roof and
bushes growing beside it. Inside, there's a sick boy in bed. If you have
a bottle, and only if you have a bottle, he will give you his bug
catching net. This is useful for catching bugs or faries.

Go to the elder's house:
At the top of the village there's a long house with a red roof and two
doors. Enter the door at the right. This lady here isn't the elder,
although she is very old. This must be his wife. She tells you a bunch
of stuff, but nothing useful at all. There's another boy in the village
that watches over the chickens. He knows where the elder is, and he'll
even mark his location on your map...

Okay, that's all the important stuff in the village. Now it's time to go
meet Sahasrahla.


                    -- GOING TO THE EASTERN PALACE --


Exit Kakariko Village from the south. Continue going south, then follow
the dirt path going east. Continue going east...past your house...then
go north across the bridge. Immediately follow the dirt path going east,
then go up to enter the maze-like ruins surrounding the Eastern Palace.

You should probably talk to Sahasrahla first. Make your way through
these maze-like ruins to find his house (it should be marked with an 'X'
on your map if you talked to that boy). After talking with him, you can
bomb the wall at the back to find a secret room with a lot of rupees.
Leave his house.

Now go on to the Eastern Palace. It's at the north-east corner of these
ruins. It should be easy enough for you to get to by yourself (meaning
I'm too lazy to give you directions). Those statue guys that come to
life, although they just seem to bounce off of your sword, can be
defeated if you hit them enough. They can also be stunned by the
boomerang. Now it's time to enter the first dungeon...


                        -- THE EASTERN PALACE --


First, pick up the pot in front of you, revealing a switch. Step on that
switch to open the door. Go ahead to the next room. Defeat these pitiful
enemies and step on the tile that sticks out to open the doors.
Proceed...

There are cannonballs coming out from the other side of the room.
Occasionally, a hugecannon ball comes out. You need to go through that
corridor moving left and right to avoid that cannonballs. When the big
cannonball comes at you, hide in the little spaces at the sides. When
you get to the end, you can take the path at the left to get to a chest
and pots with LOADS of rupees! Then go back and exit the room through
the north exit.

Take the left path when you get to a fork. Toss aside the pots, hit the
raised tile to open the door, and continue to the next room. Defeat the
skeleton guys (a.k.a. Stalfos) if you want to, then go right on ahead to
the next room.

Ack! Stalfos popping out of the ground! You need to kill all four of
them to open up the doors again. I find it more convenient to throw pots
at them. A single pot is all it takes to send them to the afterlife. Go
north to the next room.

The chest here holds the compass, absolutely worthless if you're using
this FAQ. In the next room, you can use the triangle tile to contact
Shahasrahla. Go on to the big open room. You can't open that chest
unless you have the big key, which you do not, so just go on to the next
room.

Soon you'll get to a circular shaped dark room. Those red bubble things
are chasing you around, so don't waste time. You need to hit the switch
to open the door at the right, then go in. One of the pots at the right
holds a small key. Get it, and return to the previous room. Go around
and use the key to go through the locked door at the left.

Continue until you get to a room with red bubbly things spinning around
a pot. You need to defeat every enemy in this room (besides the bubbly
things). Defeat the two Tangela-like enemies, the two stalfos, and the
cyclops. To defeat the cyclops, you need to wake him up and hit him in
the eye. It takes a lot of hits, but he'll die eventually. Now that the
red bubbly things are away from the pot, lift it to reveal the switch.
Step on the switch to make a chest appear. Then open the chest to
finally get the big key. Use it on the locked door at the top of the
room.

Push the block and continue up, then go right to be back in the big open
room. Now that you have the big key, open up the big chest to find...
the Bow! Stalfos will drop from the sky and the heads will chase you.
Quickly go up through the big door at the north side.

Another dark room! Defeat the "Tangelas" to get them out of your way.
One of the cyclopses has a small key. Defeat them and get that key. Use
it to enter the door at the top-left.

Throw away the bottom-left pot to reveal a switch, then step on it to
open the door. Continue to the next room. Try out your bow and arrows on
these cyclopses. It only takes a single arrow to the eye to take him
out. Hit the switch at the bottom, then proceed...

Ahh! Cannonballs everywhere! Be careful and hit the upper-left switch,
then go on. Kill both of the stalfos and the red cyclops (you need two
arrows for him).

Kill all six "tangelas" and the two red cyclopses. Perhaps it would be
easier and safer if you brought them down and seperated them before
attacking. If you need supplies, check the pots all around the room.

If you're all set, go to the next room for the boss: ARMOS KNIGHTS. See
the boss section for all the juicy erotic details about defeating them.
After the battle, get the heart containter and the pendant of courage.
Two pendants remain! You are transported out of the Eastern Palace...


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE SECOND PENDANT >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                     -- GETTING THE PEGASUS BOOTS --


Before anything else, you should return to Shahasrahla's house. (note:
now you can kill the Armos statues with a single arrow). Now that you
have the pendant of courage, he will give you the very useful pegasus
boots (hold A for a short while to use them). He also tells you more
about "the legend". Now it's time to get to book of Mudora.


                    -- GETTING THE BOOK OF MUDORA --


Get out of the Eastern Ruins and go all the way back to Kakariko Village
(I'm sure you remember the way). In the area a little bit south of the
village, there's a house with a book above the door. This is the
library. Go inside...

See that green book on top of the shelf? That's the Book of Mudora...and
you can't reach it! It's wierd how such a simple problem like this can
become so hard to solve in the game. Ram into the shelf with your newly
aquired Pegasus Boots and it wll drop to the floor. Yahoo! Now you have
all the items you need to get through the Desert Palace.


                    -- GOING TO THE DESERT PALACE --


Now it's time to go to the second dungeon. Go to your house (you know
where your own home is, don't you?), then go straight south from there
to a swampy grassy place. From there, head west until you get to the
desert (you'll know it's the desert because there's sand, duh).

Go through the desert and avoid the enemies (or fight them if you want,
I don't care either way). Keep going until you reach a big dark-green
platform that is the entrance to the desert palace. It's found on your
map. There's an ancient Hylian inscription on the stone slab in the
middle. You can't read it normally, so you need to use the book of
Mudora to translate. "To open the way to go forward, make a wish here,
and it will be granted". Link makes his wish and miraculously, the stone
heads move around, uncovering the entrance. Go right ahead to enter your
second dungeon, the Desert Palace...


                         -- THE DESERT PALACE --


Go up until you get to a laser-eye statue. This statue has an eye that
goes around it, and a laser shoots out of the eye when it's facing you.
Be careful around him...a hit from that laser takes away an entire
heart! Toss aside the pots at the left and continue through the north
door.

Be careful around these enemies, defeat them if you want. Throw away the
pot at the top center to reveal a switch, then step on the switch to
make a chest appear, then open the chest for the map. Go back down to
the large room.

Go the the upper left corner of this room, then go through the north
door. Be careful with the laser-eye statue! To get that key on the
torch, ram into it with the pegasus boots. Collect the key and return to
the previous room.

Go around to the left side of this large room and use your small key to
enter the locked door. In this room, kill all the enemies (except for
Mr. Laser-Eye) to open the door. Get the compass from the chest, then
continue on to the next room. It can be a little tricky to get past
those cannonballs shooting across the room, so be careful about that.
Open the chest to recieve...the big key! Go back down (past those damn
cannonballs again) until you're back at the large room.

Go around to the upper-left corner of the large room, then enter the
door at the left. Another laser-eye statue! Lift up the pot at the upper
left of the statue to reveal a switch, then step on it to open the
doors. Go to the next room. Open the big chest to recieve the power
glove. This useful item allows you to pick up stones and other heavy
stuff. Return to the large room.

Go down to the bottom-left corner of the large room, then go left to the
next room. If you push the third block from the left, you can open the
door and go north to a room full of fairies! I suggest filling up your
bottles with them (catch them with the bug-catching net). If you're done
with them, go south to the outside...

You can continue going south along the ledge to get an easy piece of
heart. Then go north, to a cave surrounded by stones. Now that you have
the power glove, you can pick up these stones and uncover the entrance
to that cave! Go inside...

This is the second part of the Desert Palace dungeon. Push the center
block of the right group of blocks to open the door and continue.

Magical tiles come out of the floor and start attacking you! Protect
yourself from them by hitting them with the sword or just by getting out
of their way. Lift the pot in the bottom-left corner to get a small key,
and use it to open the north locked door.

Keep going. Once again, defeat all the enemies in the room to open the
door. The next room is infested with those laser-eye statues. Be very
careful around here. There's a key hidded under one of the pots. Find it
and use it to open the locked door at the north side.

Here's another room with those crazy flying tiles. The key is hidden in
the upper-right pot. Use it to go on to the next room. Now defeat this
red cyclops with two arrows to his eye. A dead end? Nope. Use your lamp
to light the four torches in this room. The whole wall moves aside to
reveal a big door.

Go through this door to face the boss: LANMOLAS. As usual, the details
about them are in the boss section. When you're all done playing with
them, pick up the heart container and the pendant of power. Only one
pendant remains! You are transported out of the Desert Palace...


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE THIRD PENDANT >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                      -- GETTING THE MAGIC POWDER --


I think right now would be an appropriate time to get the magic powder.
The magic powder is a completely optional item that can come in handy
very often in your adventure. If you already got the magic powder, you
can skip this part.

Go to the Lost Woods north of Kakariko Village. Look around the forest
until you get to a mushroom squirming around. You can find it right in
the center of the forest. Pick it up.

Now exit the forest. Head east on the dirt path, passing the Sancuary,
and cross the wooden bridge. Go north and follow the path until you get
to a little hut with a witch standing by the entrance. This witch wants
your mushroom. Give it to her by using it on her like an item. "Come
back to the shop later for something good".

Follow the path back one screen, then immediately come back and enter
the which's hut. There's your magic powder. Pick it up! This is useful
for making the red bubbly enemies turn into fairies, and for doubling
you magic capacity later in the game.

Your next task is to get the flippers.


                        -- GETTING THE FLIPPERS --


Go to the north-east part of Hyrule until you reach the Witch's Magic
Shop. Pass that and you'll find a huge rock blocking your way. No
problem...you have the power glove, remember? Pick it up with the A
button and toss it aside. When you get to a bunch of green rocks
blocking the path, dash into them with the pegasus boots.

Keep going on the path until you reach the water area. Then go north to
reach the Zora's Waterfall area. This place is infested with little
Zoras that shoot fireballs at you. Be careful. Since you don't have the
flippers yet, you can only stay on shallow water.

When you reach a fork in the path, go north. When you get to another
fork, take the lowest route. Continue until you reach a big waterfall.
*rumbling sound*. Introducing......King Zora! Tell him you want the
flippers. This capitalist bastard isn't letting them go for free. You'll
need to pay a whopping 500 RUPEES! That's a lot of money, but you'll
need to pay up. These flippers allow you to swim in deep water.

Before you leave this place, look around for the piece of heart.


                       -- GETTING SOME UPGRADES --


Now keep going south until you reach the land. But first, go to the
small waterfall at the top-left. You can go inside it to find a cave!

When you get close to the pool of water you'll be asked if you want to
throw something in. Say yes, and throw in the boomerang. A fairie
appears! When she asks if you were the one who threw in the boomerang,
answer yes. Because you're an honest person, she'll give back an even
better one. The red boomerang can reach all the way across the screen!

Next, throw in your shield. Do the same process and the fairie will give
you the red shield. This one can protect you from fireballs.


                    -- GOING TO THE TOWER OF HERA --


Now it's time to head for the third dungeon of the Light World: The
Tower of Hera. From Kakariko Village, head north-east around the edge of
the Lost Woods. After you pass a V-shaped group of trees, there's a sign
that reads "Do not enter Death Mountain without the King's permission!".
Toss aside the large green stone there and enter Death Mountain.

Ack! It's dark again! Drop down the ledge and go right until you meet a
lost old man. He's going to go with you up Death Mountain. Go right to
the next room. Make your way through this room and listen to what the
old man's has to say.

When you get outside, go right until you reach a little cave. You'll
leave the old man here...and he gives you the magic mirror! If you ever
need to refill your hearts, come here and talk to the old man to have
your energy restored. You also get the option to start here when you
turn on the SNES.

Continue going right, then up the ladder. When you get to a cave, ignore
it and go left. Take note of the next cave you get to. Whenever you need
to go back down the mountain, you go through this cave. Now go up this
tall ladder.

Go right, past the cave, until you get to a wierd looking warp. There
are a few warps like this hidden all around Hyrule. Entering them brings
you into the Dark World. The Dark World is a sort of parallel universe
to the normal world. This world is ruled by Ganon and infested with
powerful monsters. To go back to the regular world (a.k.a. Light World),
use the magic mirror that the old man gave you. But you cannot use it to
go to the Dark World...you must use the warps to enter the Dark World.

So enter that warp. Since you do not have the Moon Pearl, which allows
you to retain your regular form in the Dark World, you have turned into
some kind of rabbit. When you are in the Dark World, you change into
what is truly reflected in your heart and mind. Apparently Link is a
rabbit at heart.

Go left and stand in the Light colored floor where Spectacle Rock used
to be. Use the magic mirror there to go to the Light World, and you
should be standing on top of that rock. Collect the piece of heart and
drop down at the other side.

Now go right a little bit and climb the steps to enter the Tower of
Hera...


                         -- THE TOWER OF HERA --


Here's the 411 on those crystal orb thingys: All around this dungeon
(and many other future dungeons), there are crystal orbs. When you hit
them with the sword or boomerang, the blue and orange barrier blocks
will rise and fall. The orb also changes color to show which blocks are
lowered.

Okay, so hit the orb to make the blue blocks fall. Then go down the
stairs at your left. Defeat the enemies here if you want. Hit the orb,
get the small key, and hit the orb again to raise the orange blocks. Go
back upstairs.

Hit the orb to lower the orange blocks, then go north. Open this chest
to get the map. Go downstairs through the locked door at the top-left.

Here's more of those flying tiles. Guard yourslef from their attacks
until they're all done. Hit the crystal orb to lower the blue blocks,
then continue to the next room. Hit the orb (lowering the orange blocks)
and go south to the next room. Defeat the stalfos here if you want, then
light all four torches with your lamp. Open the chest that appears to
recieve the big key. Go north, hit the orb, go west, hit the orb, and
return to the second floor.

Now go upstairs again to the third floor. These enemies are a little
tricky to beat. You'll bounch off of them when you try hitting them with
the sword. Be careful not to fall into the holes (you will return to the
first floor if you do). It takes three hits to kill them. Defeat them
all in this room to open the doors, then continue to the next room.

Notice that star symbol on the ground? When you step on it, the holes on
the floor change position. Make your way through this room and through
the big door at the top. Also make your way through the next room,
hitting the star symbols whenever necessary. Continue upstairs to the
fourth floor.

Open the small chest in the center of this room to get the compass. Go
up the stairs at the top-left to go to the fifth floor.

Now hit the star symbol beside the turning fireball thingy so that a 2x2
hole appears in the middle near the top of the room. Drop into this hole
*from the north* so that you will fall to the fourth floor...right in
front of the big chest! Open it to recieve this dungeon's treasure: The
Moon Pearl. Hit the star and go back up to the fifth floor.

Now go up the stairs at the top-right of this room to face the boss:
MOLDORM. Check the boss section for details, blah blah...you know the
routine. When you're done sending him to the afterlife, get the heart
container and the pendant of wisdom. You have all three pendants! You
are transported out of the Tower of Hera...


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< BATTLE WITH AGAHNIM >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                     -- GETTING THE MASTER SWORD --


Go south and drop off the ledge, then go left. Climb down the tall
ladder and enter the cave right beside it. Go through this simplistic,
linear cave until you reach the outside again. Drop off the ledge to the
grass.

Go north, passing the two lumberjacks, and east to enter the Lost Woods.
Go in the general direction of north west. There are a lot of fake,
imitation Master Swords in the woods. But don't be fooled, there's only
one true Master Sword.

At the north-west corner of the woods, you'll come to a peaceful
clearing with animals and birds. There's the Master Sword. At this
point, I traditionally read the ancient Hylian inscription with the Book
of Mudora. "The Hero's triumph on cataclysm's eve wins three symbols of
virtue. The Master Sword he will then retrieve, keeping the knight's
line true". Stand behind the sword and pull it out.

Shahasrahla contacts you telepathically. After chatting with him, let's
go leave this forest. But as you leave, another message comes. This time
from Princess Zelda. She's being kidnapped! Get to the Sanctuary
immediately! (you know how to get there, don't make me spell it out for
you)

At the Sanctuary, you find Zelda gone and the Sage lying on the floor.
Seems like you came a second too late. The soldiers came and took Zelda
to the castle. Now you'll need to go back to the castle, where our
adventure began. This time, you can go in through the front door...


                           -- HYRULE CASTLE --


Upon entering Hyrule Castle through the main entrance, go through the
door at the left side. Then go up the stairs and out the door to the
outside roof of the castle. Go right a little bit to find some kind of
magical barrier protecting the door. Your mighty new Master Sword can
get rid of this thing in a single blow. Let's proceed...

Take note that a beam of energy comes out of your sword when you have
full hearts. That's why it's especially useful to have full life and a
constant storage of fairies in your bottles.

Go straight through the first room. In the next room, defeat the two
guards to open the doors, then continue. Now defeat the two guards to
make a chest appear. Open it for a small key, then use it to open the
locked door and go on to the third floor.

I hate dark places. Go through this room through the door at the left.
The next room is a maze. You should light the torches with your lamp to
get a better view of things. Look around for the chest with the small
key, then use it to get through the locked door at the bottom-right
corner. Annahilate these guards and go up the stairs to the fourth
floor.

Still dark. Defeat these two guards (if you want). It's help ful to stun
one of them with the boomerang so you'll be free to fight the other one.
Get through the next room, careful not to fall into the pit. Kill the
guards in the next room to find a small key, then use it on the locked
door to go upstairs to the fifth floor.

Light at last...how refreshing! Defeat everyone in this room to open up
the doors, then continue. Repeat the process for the next room. The
guard in the center of the next room holds a small key. Defeat him to
get it, then use it to proceed to the next room. You can just ignore all
three guards here and go upstairs to the sixth floor.

Move aside the statue and go ahead. Everything is really linear from
here on. In the next room, carefully walk over the narrow strips of land
and go upstairs to the seventh and final floor...

In the next room, you finally meet the man you have heard so much about,
Agahnim...and the princess! "Behold! The last moment of Princess Zelda!"
He makes Zelda disappear, then goes behind the curtains. Ha! What a dumb
place to hide! Cut down the curtains and follow him.

Now it's time to fight. I consider him to be a boss, so go check out the
boss section for details on defeating him. After he is defeated, he will
use his last ounce of energy to draw you into the Dark World...


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE FIRST CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


Shaharsala contacts you telepathically and tells you where you are and
what you should be doing here. As he mentioned, this is the Dark World,
the same place you were when you went into that warp on Death Mountain.
You can use the magic mirror at any time to return to the Light World.

Your goal in the Dark World is to rescue the 7 maidens who are trapped
in 7 crystals that are hidden in 7 dungeons. The first one is the Palace
of Darkness, and it's marked on your map. That's where you should go
first.


                  -- GOING TO THE PALACE OF DARKNESS --


Drop down from the pyramid and go east. Continue until you get to the
place where the Eastern Palace ruins used to be in the Light World. Now,
the place is filled with bushes and plants that form a huge maze.

Upon entering this area, go right and follow the dirt path until you
come to a big arrow pointing at the bushes. Go inside them and come out
at the other side. You can just barely make out where you are when you
are under the bushes.

Continue on the path until you reach another entrance into the bushes.
Do NOT go inside there. Instead, continue left through those bushes. Go
up and right again. Enter the large mass of bushes, make your way
through them and emerge at the right side. If you went the right way,
you'll have a monkey following you! This is a rupee-loving monkey, so
give him 10 rupees to follow you.

Keep going until you reach the Eastern Palace at the northeast corner of
this area. The entrance is closed, but Kiki will open it for you for the
low low price of only 100 rupees. You really don't have any other
choice, so pay up and get in...


                        -- PALACE OF DARKNESS --


A word of warning before you begin: The dungeons you faced in the Light
World are nothing in comparison to what lies ahead in the Dark World
dungeons. If you found the previous dungeons difficult, prepare to be
overwhelmed.

Upon entering the dungeon, take the left path. Step on that raised tile
to open the door, then proceed to go north, then continue downstairs to
the basement. Be careful to avoid the fireballs here! Lift the pot
(actually, a skull) at the bottom left corner, then step on the switch
under it to make the chest appear. Open the chest for a small key.
Return upstairs. Raise the upper left skull to reveal a switch, then
step on it to open the door. Go south to the room where you began.

Now take the right path. Step on the switch to open the door, then go on
to the next room. Go straight through this room to go downstairs to the
basement. Enter the orange warp and you'll be transported to another
part of the dungeon. Dash into the south wall of this room to collapse
it, then go inside. Be careful around these jellyfish-like monsters,
they can shock you. Dash into the wall at the end and continue to the
next room.

These enemies can be a huge pain in the ass to defeat. They mimic your
every move. Easily defeat the two green ones with a single arrow to
each. The red guy is much harder, he shoots fire at you if you face him
directly. So what you need to do is shoot at the space *beside* him,
then quickly move to the side a bit so that the arrow hits him. The door
opens when they're all defeated. Proceed to the next room.

Make your way over the moving floor, and be careful not to get hit by
the spikes or jellyfish. Go upstairs at the end.

Open the chest for the map. Bomb open the crack in the left wall, then
go inside and open the chest for a small key. Return to the previous
room. You can bomb open the crack in the right wall, then go inside for
a few fairies. Now backtrack your steps all the way to the entrance room
of the dungeon.

This time, go north through the middle door. Use one of your keys to
continue north through this locked door. Avoid the jellyfish and the
turtle-like enemies. Take the left path until you get to a section of
the floor that is cracked. Use a bomb to destroy it, then fall inside.
Use your last key to enter the locked door and go upstairs. And inside
this chest is...the big key!

Drop off the ledge to the right. Pick up the skull at your left and step
on the switch beneath it to make a chest appear. At this point, four
stalfos guys drop from the sky and their heads attack you. Skillfully
avoid them and open the chest for a small key. Now go in the orange
warp.

You're here again. Go upstairs and take the center path again to get
back to where you were before. This time, take the right path. Push one
of the blocks into the pit and continue north to the next room. Open the
chest here for a small key. Now go to the arrow tile on the floor and
drop down to the next lower floor. Go up the stairs, left, then up
through the locked door.

You need to be quick here. Toss aside a pot and dash through the room
before the floor crumbles beneath your feet. When you reach the other
side, go left through the locked door.

This room is a maze...and it's dark too. There are no torches to light,
so you'll need to rely on the weak light in front of you. Kill those
fire breathing enemies to get them out of your way. There's a chest in
the top-left corner with some bombs. Go to the chest in the bottom-right
corner to get a small key. Make your way to the east wall where you'll
find a crack. Use a bomb to open the crack, then go inside. Open this
huge chest to find a tiny hammer inside. Now return to the maze room,
get through it and exit through the regular door.

Now go through the right door. Open the chest to get the compass. Now go
down one of the stairs (they both lead to the same room). Rupees
galore! There's a total of 180 rupees here. One of the chests at the
bottom of the room has a small key, and the other has a single pathetic
arrow. Be sure to pick up the key, then go back upstairs. Go south
through the locked door.

To get past those spikes easily, lift the left skull and pass at the
left side. Open this chest for 5 rupees. Push the statue right and
continue south.

Now you are back in this room. Use the arrow tile to drop down to the
platform with all these bouncy enemies. Defeat all these enemies by
pushing them into the holes at the side (just to get them out of your
way). Go south and you should be able to see a crystal orb across the
pit. Hit it with the boomerang to lower the blue barrier blocks. Now go
to the next room at the right.

Hit the crystal orb. Go to the upper right corner of this room and get
rid of all the pots. The switch to open the door is under the pot at the
very corner, but it won't stay down! You need something heavy to hold it
down...so push the upper right stone statue so that it stays on top of
the switch to keep it down and hold the door open. Then go upstairs and
through the door.

It's another group of these annoying bitches. Defeat them just like you
defeated the other group, then go on.

Be careful to avoid the moving spike, and go to the right side of the
room where you'll find a green cyclops statue. There's something
suspicious about it... Shoot and arrow into it's eye to make the wall at
the right move further, revealing a stairway! Go downstairs...

Bash these "Digletts" into the ground with your new Magic Hammer. You
can kill the turtle-like monsters by flipping them over with the hammer,
then slashing away with the sword. Stand at the left side of the lowered
orange barriers, then hit the crystal orb with the boomerang. Open the
locked door and go left to the next room.

Get rid of this turtle and continue. Ack! A whole army of turtles! I
suggest lighting the torches so you can see better. These guys can be
really though to defeat. When they are all gone, go to the next room.
Push aside the upper-right block so you can enter the orange warp. Make
your way on this path, defeating any evil turtles you come by.

If you're ready, go through the big door to face this dungeon's boss:
KING HELMASAUR. Details are found in the boss section, as usual. After
defeating him, pick up the heart container and get your first crystal.
There are 6 more crystals to go. May the way of the hero lead to the
Triforce!


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE SECOND CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


Now that you have the Magic Hammer, you can explore almost all of the
Dark World. Now would be the perfect time to get the flute...


                         -- GETTING THE FLUTE --


There is an area on the land at the north-west of Lake Hylia where you
find nine purple pegs sticking out of the ground. Bash them into the
ground with the hammer so you can pass through.

Continue going left on the dirt path...past your house (which is now a
bomb shop, by the way)...until you get to the center of a grove of trees
where there used to be a boy playing the flute in the Light World. Now
there's just a wierd armadillo guy. This is actually the flute boy. He
wants you to find the flute for him. Talk to him and get the shovel. Use
the magic mirror to go the light world.

He said he buried it with some flower seeds. By now those seeds have
grown into flowers. Use the shovel to dig into the flowers at the upper
left corner. After you find the flute, get it and go back to the Dark
World.

Talk to the armadillo man again. Since he can't play it anymore, you can
keep it. Play it in front of him one last time and he will turn into a
tree.

Use the Magic Mirror to go to the Light World, then go to Kakariko
Village. The flute boy's father is asleep in the bar, you can play the
flute to him if you want to. Go to the chicken statue at the center of
the village. Play the flute in front of it. Behold, the rooster is free!
It looks more like a duck actually. Now you can play the flute anywhere
in the Light World and this duck can transport you to any of 8 points on
the map.


                     -- GOING TO THE SWAMP PALACE --


Return to the Dark World. Go to the Dark World's equivalent of the
"Swampy Marsh Place" (the swamp area south of the bomb shop). Go to the
structure at the south of this area, then use the magic mirror to go to
the Light World.

Enter the structure. Push the blocks aside and proceed to the next room.
Pull the switch at the right to open the gates and release the water.
Now go back outside.

Enter the sparkling transporter, then enter the structure again. Welcome
to the second dungeon of the Dark World: The Swamp Palace.


                          -- THE SWAMP PALACE --


If you did everything correctly, the canals should be filled up with
water. If they're dry, see the steps that I gave in the paragraphs
above.

Hop into the water, swim left a little, and climb up to dry land. Get
past the spike thingy and defeat the three enemies in the water to make
a chest appear. Open it for a small key. Use it to get past the locked
door.

Now downstairs, go to the little strip of dry land at the left. Bomb the
cracked wall and go inside. Open the chest to get this dungeon's map!
Return to the previous room. While you avoid the fireballs from the
statue, lift the pots (skulls) until you find a small key under one of
them. Then go through the locked door at the bottom-left.

Make your way past these monsters and go down the stairs. Head straight
forward to the next room, then lift the skull-pot to find a small key.
Return to the previous room, go up the OTHER stairs, and through the
locked door. Bash the Digletts with the magic hammer, then push the
switch from the right side. This releases the water and fills up the
canal! Go to the south room, hop into the water, and climb up at the
left. Continue to the next room.

Climb down the stairs and go down to the south room. Go right and follow
the path around. Be careful to avoid those orange monsters...you lose
TWO hearts for touching them. Ouch! Push the block right to make a chest
appear, then open it for the compass. Return north to the large room.

Climb the stairs at the south-west corner and go through the door. Deja
vu? No, this is a completely different room. Climb downstairs and head
forward to the next room, then lift the skull-pot for a small key.
Backtrack to the large room.

This time, climb the stairs at the north-west corner and enter the
locked door. Hit the crystal orb from over the wall and push the switch
to release the water. Now hit the orb AGAIN to raise the blue blocks. Go
east to the large room.

Climb the south-west stairs once again and enter the door. Hop into the
water, swim left a little, then climb onto dry land. Go through this
door. Climb down the stairs. Now you need to push aside these blocks so
you can pass through. First push the bottom block left, then push the
center block up. Now proceed up the stairs to the first floor.

Push aside the block. Be careful, there's a lot of enemies in this room!
At the RIGHT side of the room, push away the block and drop into the
hole. Go to the room at your right, then open the chest to recieve...the
Big Key!

Go to the previous room and drop off the ledge. Make your way south, up
the stairs, then go east until you reach the large room with the Big
Chest in the center. Now that you have the Big Key, you can open that
chest and get one of the coolest items in the game: the Hookshot. This
item can grapple onto things and pull you towards it.

>From the center platform with the big chest, you can see a platform at
the right with a skull on it. Use the hookshot to get onto that
platform, then lift the skull at the right to get a small key. Return to
the center platform. Now use the hookshot to get to the north platform
(from behind the chest). Enter the locked door.

Go left and lift the pot at the north-west corner. This switch holds the
door open, but you need something to hold it down for you. Push the
statue onto the switch to hold the door open. But DON'T go in that
door... instead, go around to the right side and enter the left door
there.

Go through this corridor and downstairs. Push the switch. This opens
the drain and *empties* the water from the canal. Climb down the stairs
and into the door. Then go north to a room with lots of waterfalls.

Push the third block from the left to make a chest appear, then open it
to find...20 rupees. Blech. Go to the right side and enter the second
waterfall from the right. There's a passageway behind it. Continue
upstairs...until you get to a room with a big pool or water.

Immediately jump in the water, swim right and go to the place with the
skull. Lift it up to get a small key. By now an enemy or two is waiting
for you to return to the water. Try to avoid it, if possible. You can
blow up the cracked wall and enter a secret room where you'll find
hearts and other goodies under skull-pots.

If you're all set, enter the locked door and continue to the next room
where you will face this dungeon's boss: ARRGHUS. Head for the Boss
Section of this FAQ for details. After you've defeated him, get the
heart container and the second crystal. There are 5 more crystals to go.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE THIRD CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                     -- GOING TO THE SKULL DUNGEON --


Let's just go straight to the next dungeon, shall we? But to get to the
next dungeon, you'll need to pass through the Light World. Use the Magic
Mirror to go to the Light World, then use the flute to go to Kakariko
Village (map point #3). Now go into the Lost Woods through the north-
west corner of the village. When you enter the Lost Woods, immediately
go right and south out of the Woods. You should come to an area blocked
off by a fence. Use your hammer to smash the pegs into the ground. Then
pick up the rock to reveal a transporter! Enter the Dark World...

Go north into the Dark World version of the Lost Woods. Follow the path
right. When you reach the 3 skulls CONTINUE going right. Then go north
and fall into the hole to enter the 3rd dungeon of the Dark World: The
Skull Dungeon.


                         -- THE SKULL DUNGEON --


[NOTE: In many places of the dungeon, a hand will drop down from the
ceiling and try to grab you. If you get caught, the hand will bring you
back to the place where you entered the dungeon. This can really be a
pain in the ass, so try extra hard to avoid that hand!]

>From the place where you land, go south. Toss away the three skull-pots
and open the chest to recieve a small key. Now head for the upper-right
corner of the room and go straight through the locked door. Get rid of
the hardhat beetle by pushing him with your sword into one of the pits.
Step on the star symbol to rearrange the pits, then open the chest to
get the dungeon map. Go into the door at the left, then go south to the
outside.

Just north of where you come out, there's a 3x3 square of bushes. Cut
them down and drop into the hole in the center.

You'll land in the center of a circle of pots. Toss them away (and kill
that Helmasaur too). Step on the star symbol once to rearrange the pits.
Blow open the crack on the left wall with a bomb. Go inside. Just pull
the switch here and...kablam! The entire south wall blows up! Go south
to reach the big chest (can't open it yet, you don't have the big key).
Use the hookshot over the pits to reach the other side. Then go outside
once again.

Go through the two tunnels of bones at the north-west, then enter the
skull at the end to get back inside the Skull Dungeon.

Defeat the two electric jellyfish and the two mummies (and watch out for
the falling hand!). Lift the pot in the center to reveal a switch. This
needs something heavy to hold it down. You can move the statue at the
right. Push it down a bit, then left, then PULL it back until it's on
top of the switch. Then proceed to the next room. Annahilate this small
army of enemies, then open the chest to get the Big Key! Return to the
previous room and go back outside.

Go through the two tunnels of bones again. Cut down the 3x3 block of
bushes and drop into the hole in the center (again).

Hit the star symbol only once, then go left through the hole you blew
open in the wall. Go south until you reach the big chest. Now that you
have the big key, open it and recieve this dungeon's treasure: the
Fire Rod. Once again, use the hookshot to cross the pit. Go outside.

Go through the two tunnels of bones yet again (this is the last time, I
promise). Enter the skull.

This time, go through the door at the left. Continue straight through
this room to the next one. Lift the pot at the upper-left corner to find
a small key. Then go outside.

Go through the *left* tunnel of bones and you'll get to some kind of
skull of a monster. Whip out your fire rod and burn away its big nose to
reveal an entrance (it took me forever to figure that one out). This is
another section of the Skull Dungeon. Go inside...

Go down the steps at the left. There are paths and wall hidden under the
upper path, so it'll be confusing to get through this place. Make your
way north and enter the door at the upper-left wall. Make your way south
through this room, avoiding the enemies as much as possible, and enter
the door at the bottom. Open the chest for a small key. Now backtrack
through the previous room and go back through the maze until you get to
the entrance. Go north on the upper path and through the locked door at
the end.

Here's detailed instructions on how to get through this room: Step
forward on the star symbol. Lift the pots, then go forward and step on
the stars at the center of the room. Now step on the star at the bottom
left corner. Go around (breaking the pots when necessary) and step on
the stars to the upper-right of the center stars. Next, hit the star at
the upper-right. And finally, you can exit the room.

First, kill ALL of the mummies in the room. Also destroy the two skull
pots. To open the door, you need to light the four torches, and the only
way to do that is with the fire rod. So light all four torches, starting
from to bottom and working your way up. Then leave the room before one
of the lights goes out.

The next room may seem to be a dead end, but cut down the vines at the
north wall and you'll find a hidden door. In the next room, defeat the
enemies and you'll find a small key in the mummy. Open the locked door
and proceed to the next room.

Lift one of the pots and carefully slip by the spike trap. Then drop
into the hole and you'll fall right in front of this dungeon's boss:
MOTHULA. Go down to the boss section of this FAQ for details. After
you've defeated him, get the heart container and the third crystal.
There are 4 more crystals to go.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE FOURTH CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


Before you actually go for the 4th crystal, there's a few items you
should get. If you already have these items, just skip to the next
section.


                           -- GETTING ETHER --


Use the Magic Mirror to transport to the Light World. Then use the flute
and let the rooster bring you to map point #1 (Death Mountain). Climb
all the way to the top of Death Mountain, just like you did when you
were going to the Tower of Hera. Go to the left side of the Tower of
Hera and cross that bridge to an island in the sky. Read the inscription
on the stone tablet with the help of the Book of Mudora. You'll hold up
the Master Sword and recieve the power of Ether.


                           -- GETTING QUAKE --


Return to the Dark World. Go as far north-east as possible until you
reach the very north-east corner of the map (the place that used to be
the entrace to the Zora's Waterfall area). There you'll find a sign that
reads "Curses to anyone who throws something into my circle of stones".
There's a circle of stones in the water to the left. Let curiousity get
the best of you: Throw something into that circle. Some kind of catfish
creature comes out and gives you the power of Quake.


                           -- GETTING BOMBOS --


Still in the Dark World, go to the area south of your house (*cough*...
the Bomb Shop). The area where the 2nd Dark World dungeon is. From
there, go left to where the entrace to the desert should be. Eventually,
you'll reach a dead end and an area enclosed by stakes. Go inside that
area and use the magic mirror. You should emerge in the Light World on
top of a ledge. Go one screen to the left and read the tablet with the
Book of Mudora. You'll hold up the Master Sword and recieve the power of
Bombos.


                        -- GETTING THE ICE ROD --


Use the flute to warp to map location #5. From there, go north on the
dirt path. Continue until you reach a grassy area and a cave. There is
clearly a bombable wall to the left of that cave. Use a bomb on it and
go inside. Go forward to the next room, then open the chest to get the
ice rod.


                     -- DOUBLING YOUR MAGIC POWER --


Go to Kakariko Village in the Light World. Go to the Smithy Shop (the
blacksmith shop, to the right of the Village). Go up the steps, right a
little, and smash the peg down with the magic hammer. Now fall off the
ledge and into the hole.

Go north to the next room. Sprinkle some magic powder into the red
stuff. This wakes up a bat. He will put a "curse" on you that supposedly
cuts your magic power in half, but this is actually a good thing. Now it
only takes half the energy as before when you use magic. It's just like
doubling your magic meter in Zelda: OOT.


                     -- GOING TO BLIND'S HIDEOUT --


Use the flute to go to Kakariko Village (map point #3). Now go into the
Lost Woods through the north-west corner of the village. When you enter
the Lost Woods, immediately go right and south out of the Woods. Use
your hammer to smash the pegs into the ground. Pick up the rock and
enter the Dark World.

Go south to the Village of Outcasts. In the place where the rooster
statue was in the Light World, there is now a gargoyle statue. Stand in
front of it and pull back on the pitchfork. It will vanish, revealing
the entrance to Blind's Hideout. Before you enter, I suggest you fill up
your bottles with the red/blue potion from the magic shop (or with
fairies). You will need it.


                          -- BLIND'S HIDEOUT --


This is a confusing place, so I'll try to make my instructions as simple
as possible. Drop off the ledge to the lower area. Go north a bit, then
open the chest at the left to get the map. Then continue north to the
next room. The chest you see there contains a single red rupee. Staying
on the lower area, go around and go to the next room to the right. Then
go straight to the next room to the south.

Go up the steps to the upper area of the room. Make your way to the
treasure chest and open it to get the dungeon's compass. From that
point, drop down to the lower level and go to the next room to the left.
Open this chest and you will find the big key.

Go to the east room, then go to the north room. Now climb the steps to
the upper area. Make your way to the north side of this room and go
through the door that requires the big key.

Go north through this room (defeating any Stalfos along the way). Lift
the skull pot at the upper-right corner to get a small key. Then go back
down and go left through the locked door to the next room. I try to
avoid these enemies, a single touch from them costs you TWO hearts! Go
straight through this room and on to the next.

Defeat the cloud-like creatures in this room (just defeat the small part
and the big one will disappear as well). You can sprinkle magic powder
on the red-bubble enemy to turn it into a fairy! Go left to the next
room. Make your way north over the conveyer belt (against the current),
defeating the enemies along the way. In the next room, get the small key
from under the skull pot. Hit the crystal orb, then carefully slip past
the spike traps and go up the stairs.

Lift the bottom-right skull to reveal a switch, then step on it to open
the door. Continue on to the next room. Dash straight through this
corridor and go through the door to the next room.

The chest in the corner contains some bombs. Stand between the two
wooden tables and face north. Place a bomb on the ground, pick it up
(with the A button), and throw it forward. It should land on the cracks
and blow open a hole in the floor, allowing light to shine down to the
1st floor.

Now backtrack all the way to the first floor. Go to the room with the
long conveyer belt. From here, go to the room at the right (passing over
the lowered blue block). Zip past this room and continue to the room at
the right. In this room full of conveyer belts, make your way to the
north side and go down the stairs to the basement.

Defeat ALL the enemies in this room to open the door, then go inside. Go
south in this room over the conveyer belts. Be extra careful not to fall
off into the sides or touch the enemies (you can kill the jellyfish from
afar with the hookshot). Go in the door at the right. Go straight right
through this room and you'll reach some kind of prison. Walk right
through all the locks (they don't require any keys) until you reach what
*appears* to be the dungeon's maiden.

Doesn't this seem suspicious to you? This girl will follow you from now
on. Anyway, take the small key from the chest and backtrack to the room
with the long conveyer. This time, go through the locked door at the
left. Quickly whip out your hammer and smash one of the "digletts" into
the floor, then open the big chest to get this dungeon's treasure:
Titan's Mitt. Now quickly get out of the room before you get trapped in
the center. From the long conveyer belt room, go through the door at the
upper-right...then go up the stairs to floor B1.

In the full-of-conveyer-belts room, lift the skull pot at the
upper-right corner to reveal a switch. Then step on the switch to open
the door at the right. Go inside.

Go north to a seemingly empty room. There's light shining in the center
because of the hole in the floor you blow open in the above level. Now
let's think for a moment: This is Blind's Hideout, and you just picked
up a mysterious girl from the basement. That girl is Blind the Thief.
And do you remember what the person in the Light World said? "Blind
HATES the light".

Go forward so that the light shines on the girl. She transforms and
reveals her true identity. It's this dungeon's boss: BLIND the THIEF.
See the boss section of this FAQ for details. After you've defeated him,
get the heart container and the fourth crystal. There are 3 more
crystals to go.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE FIFTH CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                        -- UPGRADING THE SWORD --


Go to the area a little bit south of the Village of Outcasts. You'll
find a frog man trapped in a cage of heavy skulls. Now that you have the
Titan's Mitt, you can lift those dark skulls and free the frog. This is
actually the partner of the guy in the Smithy Shop! Talk to him to make
him follow you. Use the Magic Mirror to warp to the Light World, then go
to the Smithy Shop for a sweet reunion.

Exit the house and enter again. Talk to one of them and ask him to
temper your sword. At a price of only 10 rupees, they are being too
kind. After giving them your sword, leave the house and go around
Kakariko Village to pass the time. Then return and get your orange
upgraded sword.


                      -- GETTING THE 4TH BOTTLE --


After getting the level 3 sword, return to the Smithy Shop in the Dark
World. There's a purple chest in the ruins of that house, but you can
never open it because there is no key. Just take it with you.

This chest will continue to follow you unless you dash with the Pegasus
Boots. Use the Magic Mirror to transport to the Light World, then go to
the entrance to the desert where there's a person standing beside a
sign. This guy will open the chest for you as long as you promise not
to tell anyone. Inside the chest is your 4th and final bottle.


                      -- GETTING THE MAGIC CAPE --


Go to the graveyard in the Light World (it's just to the east of the
Sanctuary). At the upper-right corner of the graveyard, you'll find a
tombstone in an area enclosed by dark stones. Now that you have Titan's
Mitt, you can lift those stones. Most tombstones can be moved simply by
pushing, but not this one. You need to dash into it (pegasus boots) to
reveal a secret stairway...

At the end of the underground room there is a treasure chest with the
magic cape inside. When you use the magic cape, you become invisible and
invinsible...just watch your magic mater.


                      -- GOING TO THE ICE PALACE --


In the Light World, use the flute and let the rooster bring to to map
point #8 (south of Lake Hylia). From there, jump into the lake and swim
to the island in the center of the lake, where there's a cave. Lift the
heavy stone in the center to reveal a transporter. Enter into the Dark
World. Then simply go down the stairs to enter the Ice Palace.


                            -- ICE PALACE --


[NOTE: You'll be using magic quite a bit in this dungeon, so I suggest
you have at least one bottle of the green potion. Here's a neat trick to
do when you're low on magic: Freeze a monster with the ice rod, then
smash him with the hammer...a magic jar comes out!]

In the first room, the ice statue at the left comes to life an attacks
you. Be very careful not to touch him because a single hit will cost you
FOUR HEARTS! Magic flames will protects you in this icy dungeon: Use the
fire rod to defeat him and open the door.

The light blue tiles in this room are slippery to walk on. You'll be
seeing more of them throughout this dungeon. Defeat the electric
jellyfish to find the small key hidden in one of them. Then go down the
stairs to B1. By the way, this dunegon goes all the way down to B7!

Step on the tile at the bottom left and continue to the next room. In
this cross-shaped room, push the block right and go to the south room.
Quickly kill all the green ducks here with the magic of bombos (or you
can kill them one by one if you want to conserve magic), then open the
chest to get the dungeon compass. Return to the cross-shaped room.

Push the block forward, step on the raised tile, and go on to the east
room. More green ducks! Kill them if you want. Lift the lower skull pot
to reveal a switch and step on it. Then go LEFT, back to the
cross-shaped room.

Step on the tile to open the doors. Push the block to the left, then go
through the north door. Hit the crystal orb to lower the blue blocks.
Now plant a bomb beside the crystal orb and go to the other side of the
blue blocks before the bomb explodes. Use another bomb on the cracked
floor to blow a hole in it. Then drop down to B2.

There are two Stalfos that you need to defeat in this room. But the
Stalfos can't be defeated with the sword alone. First, hit him with the
sword to make him collapse to the floor. Then plant a bomb on him to
finish him off. Defeat both of the Stalfos to open the door, then go to
the next room.

Carefully make your way through this room while avoiding the spikes. The
conveyer belt changes direction every few seconds. Defeat the blue
jellyfish to find a small key in one of them. Make sure the crystal orb
is colored red, then go to the next room. Simply get around while
avoiding the fire chain. The switch to open the door is hidded under the
skull pot at the bottom left. Go down the stairs in the next room to
reach B3.

Again, defeat all the green ducks in the room to open the door (with the
help of bombos, if you have magic to spare). When you enter the next
room, DO NOT MOVE. The big spikey ball will NOT hit you if you stand in
the doorway. As the spikey ball moves back, go forward and into the room
at the left. Make your way around the fire chain and go down the stairs
(it'll be hard to properly align yourself with the stairs due to the
slippery floor).

Now you're in B4. With the fire rod, defeat the two ice statues that
come to life and a chest will appear. Inside you'll find some bombs. Now
place a bomb in the cracked floor at the left to create a hole. Drop
inside it and you will land right in front of the big chest. Too bad you
don't have the big key though :P  Push aside the blocks and go right to
the next room. Just ignore the ice man that comes at you and continue
right to the next room.

In this room with the slippery floor, lift a pot at the upper-left to
find a small key. You might want to sprinkle magic powder on the red
blubbly thing to turn it into a fairy. One of the pots here has a switch
beneath it. Find the switch, open the door, and go south to the next
room.

Get past this room, careful not to slip off the sides of the land or hit
the fire chain. In the room after that, lift the pot at the bottom-left
corner to reveal a switch. Hit the switch to make a chest appear, then
open it for a small key. Now go up the stairs and back to B4.

Go through the locked door. Make your way through this large, dangerous
room and go through the door at the upper-right. Use the hookshot to
defeat the enemies and cross the wide gap in the next room. Carefully
make your way through this room with the spikey balls, then go up the
stairs to B3.

You can cross the spikey floor in this room by using the magic cape.
Don't forget to press Y again to take it off. You don't want to waste
magic power! Lift the skull at the other side to reveal a switch, then
step on it to make a chest appear. Cross the spikes again with the magic
cape and open that chest for a small key. Cross the spikes yet again and
go up the stairs.

Hammer the digletts into the ground and lift the giant block. Collect
the small key and smash the other digletts with the Magic Hammer. Hidden
under one of those pots is a switch. Step on it to make a chest appear,
and get the map from the chest (it's about time!). Stand in front of the
stone statue and pull it's tongue. Yes, you heard correctly. Pull it's
tongue to open the door. Go inside and go up the stairs to B1.

Toss aside the pots and open the chest to recieve the big key. At last!
Go back down the stairs. Pull the statue's tongue to open the door, then
go inside. Go down the stairs again to B3. With the help of the magic
cape, cross the spikes. Then go through the locked door. Slip past the
spiked ball and go through the door at the left. Go down these
fustrating stairs once again to B4.

Place a bomb on the cracked floor at the left to blow a hole in it (just
like before), then drop inside. You're in front of the big chest once
again, but this time you can open it to get...the Blue Mail! This
fashionable blue armor cuts the damage you take in half. Push aside the
blocks and go right to the next room.

Now go north through the door that requires the big key. Go straight
through this room and through the locked door to B6. Go straight south
through this room. In the next room, there's a switch under the pot that
opens the door but it won't stay down. Go to the right room and hit the
crystal orb. Then trace your steps all the way back upstairs (B5).

Keep going until you reach the room with a hole in the center, then go
right. Find the switch in this room then go south. Just keep going
through the rooms until you reach the large room with a slippery floor.
Lift the pot at the right to reveal a switch, step on the switch to open
the door, then go through that door on your left. Fall into the hole.

Go one room right and you'll be in the room with a hole in the center.
Push one of the blocks into that hole, then drop inside yourself. Lift
the skull pot to uncover the switch. Now push the block over that switch
to hold it down. The door is finally held open! Go south to the next
room.

At the left side of this room, toss away the two skull pots. Pull the
statue out of the way. Then bash the digletts into the ground (with the
magic hammer, as usual). Finally, lift the giant block to uncover a
hole.

When you're ready, drop into the hole and you will face this dungeon's
boss: KHOLDSTARE. Detals about this can be found in the boss section of
this FAQ. When the battle is over, get the heart container and the fifth
crystal. There are 2 more crystals to go.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE SIXTH CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                       -- GOING TO MISERY MIRE --


There are no more items or sub-quests in between the two dungeons, so
let's just go on to the next dungeon. Use the Magic Miror to transport
to the Light World, then play the flute and go to map point #6 (south-
west of the desert). With the help of your mighty Titan's Mitt, lift the
heavy stone at the right to reveal a transporter, then go into the Dark
World.

Now go north until you reach a structure where the entrance should be.
There's a tile there with the symbol of Ether on it. Stand on that tile
and use the magic of Ether there. The rainy weather stops and the
entrance to Misery Mire arises. Go right ahead...


                           -- MISERY MIRE --


Go forward and use the hookshot to pull yourself over the pit. Then go
downstairs to B1. Defeat all the enemies in this room while avoiding the
lazer beams from the eye of the statue. The door opens when all the
enemies are defeated...go inside.

Climb down the steps and make your way through the room. Climb the steps
at the upper-right and enter the door at the upper-right (not the locked
one). Watch out for the fireballs that come out of the lamps here. Push
the block to the side and enter the door that opens. Keep going forward
on this straight path until you get to a treasure chest. Open it to get
a small key. Now go back to the room with the block and two lamps.

Time time, enter the door at the right. Lift the pot at the upper-left
corner to get another small key. Now, with the help of the magic cape,
lift the pot over the spikes to reveal a switch. Then open the chest
that appears to get yet another small key. Go north through the locked
door.

Continue north through this room and follow the long path until you
reach a large room with spikes. Go to the upper-left part of the room
and hit the crystal orb (to turn it blue). Also lift the pot there and
get the small key. Exit the room the same way you came in (through the
east door). Continue backtracking until you reach the room with the
spiked floor and stalfos.

This time, go south through the locked door. Open the chest to get the
dungeon map. Now go left through another locked door. Climb down the
steps...then climb up the steps at the upper-left. Go along the path at
the side of the room, then onto the wire grating floor. Lift the pot to
reveal a switch, step on the switch, and open the chest for a small key.
Now go through the locked door on the left wall.

Kill the jellyfish enemy to get another small key, then go straight
through another locked door. In the next room, the floor tiles will come
to life and attack you, just like in some previous dungeons. You'll also
need to avoid the fireballs. Light the four torches in this room with
the fire rod, then go through the door that opens.

Open the chest here to get the compass, then go TWO rooms south. You can
defeat the enemies in the room if you want. The pot in the upper-right
corner has a big magic jar under it. Go up the stairs.

In this room, you need to move the blocks so that you can get to the
torches. Move the top and bottom blocks sideways, and move the center
block up or down. Then do the same thing in the room below. Now light
ALL four torches in the two rooms. You can just use the regular lamp to
light them. There will be a long rumbling sound. When the rumbling
stops, go east to the next room. Fall right into the hole...

And you land right in front of a chest! Open it to get the big key. Go
left to the next room and walk into the transporter. Then go north
through the door that requires the big key. Go into another transporter.

Now go right to the next room (ignore that big door for now). Then go
two rooms south. Drop down the ledge, climb up the steps, and go into
the room at the right. Now QUICKLY go around to the path in the center
before it collapses. Keep going along that path until you reach the big
chest at the end. Open it to get this dungeon's treasure: The Cane of
Somaria.

Go left to the next room, then go two rooms north. Then go west into the
room with the big door. Climb up the steps and enter that big door. Go
forward along this straight path and go down the stairs.

Darkness. Try to avoid the fireballs coming at you from every direction.
Lift the pot at the left side to uncover a switch. This switch opens the
door...but it doesn't stay down! Use your newly-aquired Cane of Somaria
to create an orange block, then push it over the switch to hold it down.
Go through the door at the bottom-left.

There's nothing special in this room, just go left to the next room.
Make your way to the upper part of this room where there's a ring of
conveyer belts. Hit the crystal orb in the center by using the
boomerang. It should be color red now. Go through the door at the bottom
left.

The orange blocks are lowered, but the blue blocks are raised! Use a
bomb to blow up the crack in the north wall of the room. Go inside, hit
the crystal orb, and come back down. Go left to the next room. Watch out
for the enemies falling from the sky in this room. Hit the crystal orb
at the top of the room, then go up the stairs.

Light at last! Go left and north through the big door to finally meet
the boss of Misery Mire: VITREOUS. Details, as usual, are found in the
boss section of this FAQ. When you're done with him, get the heart
container and the sixth crystal. There's only 1 more crystal left.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< THE SEVENTH CRYSTAL >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                 -- GETTING STUFF FROM THE FAT FAIRY --


Go to the Bomb Shop in the Dark World (it's the building that used to be
your house in the Light World). In addition to the regular blue bombs,
there's also a special pink super bomb! Buy the super bomb for 100
rupees. This bomb follows you behind you back until you press the A
button or drop off a ledge.

Go outside of the shop. Use the Magic Mirror to transport to the Light
World. Now head for Hyrule Castle and use the teleporter at the gate to
go back to the Dark World. Now you're in front of the big pyramid. Climb
the steps up the pyramid. See the big crack in the wall? Set the bomb in
front of that crack (press the A button) and get away. The bomb explodes
after 3 seconds, blowing a big hole in the wall. Go inside.

Step forward towards the fountain and you will be promted if you want to
throw something in. This is just like that good fairy in the Light
World! Throw in your bow and arrow...a fat fairy appears. Answer her
question honestly and she'll give you something better: The Silver
Arrows. These are stronger than regular arrows and you need them to
defeat Ganon. Repeat that process with your sword to get the golden
sword (lvl. 4).


                    -- GETTING THE CANE OF BYRNA --


Use the Magic Mirror to transport to the Light World, then use the flute
and fly to map point #1 (on Death Mountain). Follow the path and make
your way up the mountain, just like you did when going to the Tower of
Hera. After you climb the tall ladder, go right and into the
transporter.

Upon arriving in the Dark World, go straight down from where the
transporter was and drop of the ledge. You'll land on another small
ledge. Go inside the cave.

Smash the three digletts with your Magic Hammer. Now use the magic cape
and follow the path of spikes. When you get to the end, open the chest
to get the final item to complete your collection: The completely
useless Cane of Byrna. That trip over the spikes probably cost you all
your magic power. So use a green potion if you have one, and make the
return trip. Then exit the cave.


                      -- GOING TO TURTLE ROCK --


Drop off the ledge and make your way back up to the top of the mountain.
Use the Magic Mirror at the correct spot so that you'll emerge on top of
the big rock. Drop off at the other side and go right...past the Tower
of Hera...past the bridge...and keep going until you reach a large rock
with three pegs on top of it. Hammer the pegs in this order:

                                  2

                               3     1

To make the transporter appear, then go into the Dark World. THIS is
Turtle Rock. There's a tile there with the symbol of Quake on it. Use
Quake while standing on that tile. In a fantastic rumble, the turtle
head transforms into a staircase! A staircase that leads you into the
7th and final dungeon, known as Turtle Rock...


                          -- TURTLE ROCK --


Check the triangle at the left to recieve an important message from
Shahasrahla. You will most likely need the magic potion in this
dungeon... you will be using a lot of magic. I suggest that you have at
least one bottle of the green or blue potion at all times.

Toss aside the pots and stand in front of the little brown block with
the question mark on it. Use the cane of Somaria on it to create a
platform for you to ride on. There will be more stuff like this
throughout the dungeon. Ride on the platform to the other side then go
on to the next room.

Use the cane again on the question mark to create another platform. Get
on it and press right to start moving in that direction. The platform
stops when it reaches the next question mark, so press up to continue,
then get off at the next stop. Go right into the next room.

There are in this room four torches, and you'll need to light all of
them with the firerod to open the door. Use the cane to create another
orange platform, then press down to start moving.

    .------.            The numbers at the left stand for the torches.
    ?    3 | 2
    |  .---|---.        When you are between torch 4 and 1, use the
    |  | 4 | 1 |        firerod to light up torch 1 at your right. Then
    |  '---'   |        when you're between 3 and 2, light up torch
    |          |        2 at your right. Then when you're above torch 3,
    '----------.---.    shoot the firerod down to light up 3 and 4.
               |   |
               '---'

The door will stay open only while the torches are lit, so hurry to that
door and go north to the next room.

Make your way through this room and avoid the spiky roller things by
hiding at the sides. Open the chests at the end to get the dungeon map
and a small key. Make your way back down to the previous room...then go
left to the room before that.

Create another platform and ride it up, then continue until you reach a
locked door. Go through it and kill the enemy in the next room (be
careful not to get hit by his bouncing body parts!). Collect the key and
continue north.

There are two chain chomps guarding the next room. Be very careful
around these guys: Every hit from them costs you THREE hearts! Standing
at the lower part of the room (south of the tan barrier), hit the
boomerang to hit the crystal orb and lower the blue barrier. Now push
one of the brown blocks to the side. This causes a chest to appear! Use
the boomerang again on the crystal orb, then collect the small key from
the chest. Use this to proceed through the locked door.

If you're running low on hearts (and you probably are thanks to the
chain chomps), you can sprinkle magic powder on the "red bubbly things"
to turn them into faries. Go around to the lower-right corner of the
room, up the stairs, and go into the tunnel. You'll automatically go
through to the other side. In the next room, go into the *right* tunnel.
Go into the next room.

Avioding the red bubbly enemies, go down and hit the crystal orb to
lower the blue barrier. Destroy the pokey (the brown bouncing enemy) to
get a small key. There's an eye above the door that shoots laser beams
at you if you look at it. Face left and hold your sword out. Now you can
walk through the door without facing the eye!

Go through the tunnel in the next room. Open the chest and you'll get
the big key! Go down into the next tunnel and proceed to the next room.
Go into another tunnel, then fall off the ledge. Go up the stairs at the
bottom-right and go into that tunnel again. In the next room, go into
the *left* tunnel this time. Defeat both of the pokeys to open the
doors. Now head south...then left...

Here you have FIVE laser eyes on the north wall! The 1st, 3rd, and 5th
eyes will only shoot at you if you face then. The 2nd and 3rd eyes will
shoot at you no matter what direction you're facing. Bomb the crack in
the south wall and go inside.

You're outside! Pass along the ledge and enter again at the right cave.

Use the cane to create a bridge over the small gap, then open the big
chest to get this dungeon's treasure: The Mirror Shield! Go through the
north door into the next room. There, don't go left! Avoid the fireballs
and head north through the locked door. Into the tunnel...and into the
next room...

Bomb the crack in the upper wall and go inside. This can be tricky: When
the spiky roller is at the right side, go up and use the boomerang to
hit the crystal orb, and quickly go left to safety. Open the chest for a
small key. Use the boomerang again to hit the orb, then go north through
the locked door


    HHHHHHH
    HHHHHHH               ,----------.
    HHHHHHH               |          |              o
       ?         ,------------o      ,----o----.    |
       |         |            |      |         |    |
  ,----o----o----|----o----o--|--o---o         o----o
  |         |    |    |    |  |  |   |         |    |
  o----o----|----o----|----|--'  |   |         |    |
  |    |    |    |    |    |     |   |         |    |
  |    |    o----|----'    o-----o---o----o----o    |
  |    |    |    |         |              |    |    |
  o----o    `----|----o----'              o----o----'
  |    |         |    |       HHHHHHHH    |    |
  |    |         |    |       HHHHHHHH    o----'
  o----o         |    '----o  HHHHHHHH    o-------o
  |    o----o----o            HHHHHHHH    |
  |    |    |    |            HHHHHHHH    |
  o----|----o----|---------.              |
  |    |         |         |              |
  |    `---------o    ,----o----o----o----o----o----.
  |              |    |         |    |         |    |
  |    ,---------|----o----o----o----o         |    |
  |    |         |    |    |    |    |         |    |
  `----|----o----o----|----o----o----o         o----o
       |    |    |    |    |    |    |         |    |
       o    `----o    '----|----'    '---------'    |
                 |         |                        o
                 '---------'

Here's a map to hopefully get you through the next room. I really hope
it helps, because it took a lot of effort for me to make! You need to
first make your way to the center platform where there's a pot. You can
use the magic cape and turn invisible to escape getting hurt by the
flames. Lift the pot at the center and step on the switch to open the
exit. Then make your way to the lower left platform and go through the
door.

Go through this room and into the door at the south end. In the next
room, go down to the bottom and go left on the last path. Your new
Mirror Sheild will protect you from the lasers! Open the chest to get
small key. Getting back on the main path is trickier: Face south and
press B to hold out your sword. Since the shield is held up at your
side, you can get back to the main path walking in this position. You
can do the same thing to get the other treasures, but there's really
nothing worth getting :P  Go back up to the previous room, then use the
key to go through the locked door.

This maze room isn't very hard at all. Just use your common sence to get
through to the top of the room. Remember that you can use the boomerang
to hit the switch from the other side of the barriers. Go down the
stairs at the north side of the room.

Lift the pots to get some magic jars to fill up your magic meter. Use
the cane to creat a platform, then ride it to the other side. Behind
this door is the boss of the Turtle Rock dungeon. You might need a
potion for life or magic during this battle. Ready? Proceed through the
door and meet Turtle Rock's boss: TRINEXX. Details are in the boss
section below. When you're all done, get your heart container and the
crystal. By the way, YOU HAVE ALL SEVEN CRYSTALS! Hell yeah! But there's
still one more major obstacle to tackle: Ganon's Tower.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< GANON'S TOWER >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


                     -- GOING TO GANON'S TOWER --


After you are warped to the entrance of Turtle Rock, just take the path
west until you reach the huge glowing tower. Stand in front of it. The
seven maidens in the crystals use their power to break the barrier on
the Tower of Ganon. The blinking stops, the stairs appear. The entrance
to Ganon's Tower is wide open...


                       -- THE TOWER OF GANON --


Go forward, down the steps, and go down the staircase at the right. Open
the treasure chests for some arrows and bombs (rather cheap things to
put in treasure chests). Lift the pot at the bottom-left to reveal a
switch this switch opens the door at the right, but it doesn't stay down.
So use the Cane of Somaria and create an orange block to hold it down.
Then go into the room at the right.

Ouch, this room is evil. You'll need to avoid the flying tiles, the red
bubbly thing, the flashy thing that transforms you into a pig, the
fireballs, and the grabbing hand all at the same time! I suggest using
magic powder to get rid of the red bubbly thing. It will be really hard
to escape this room unharmed, but you should at least try :) Aslo be
very careful to avoid the hand, becuase he'll bring you back to the
entrance if he gets you. When the tiles are finished attacking you, the
chest will appear. Get the small key from it and go on to the room at
the right.

Go right and push the left block downwards. Then kill all the enemies in
the room: The mummies, the stalfos, and especially the two blue
jellyfish near the bottom. Return to the top of the room. You need to
use the fire rod and light all the torches to open the door at the south
side of the room. Start from the top and work your way down to the
bottom. When that's all done, go into the south room.

Defeat all the enemies. Now you will need to throw a bomb onto the
conveyer belt where it will be brought to the crystal orb and explode to
lower the blue barrier. Do the same thing again, to lower the orange
barrier (make sure you're on the left side of the blue barrier!).
Continue to the next room.

Open the upper-left chest to get the compass (and create a lot of holes
in the ground...). The other chests just have a few rupees and arrows.
Go into the warp portal.

Go right over the conveyer belt and step on the star. Make sure you STOP
when you get to the star or else you will fall into the hole! Step on
the next star, then lift the pots at the top to find a small key. Then
continue stepping on the stars and going right until you reach the next
room.

*Quickly* cross that narrow "bridge of danger" because soon it will
start collapsing. The magic cape will protect for from all those dangers
so you can easily make your way through. Go into the door at the left.

Pull the statue downwards at the right side, then go around and step on
the star. That creates a bridge over the gap, so you can cross it and go
into the warp portal...

Use the lamp to light the torch and make the invisible bridge visible.
Cross it and go into the next room. There, go around to the north side
of the room where there's a door. Go right a bit and you can see a torch
at the other side of the gap. Light the torch with the firerod...and you
can see the large invisible path! Quickly take that path to the door at
the upper-right corner. If the torchlight goes out, use Ether to make
path visible for a moment.

In the next room, bomb the crack in the lower-right floor to create a
hole. Then fall inside to meet this dungeon's first mini-boss: The Armos
Statues. They're just the same as last time, but the floor is iced and
slippery to give a little more challenge. If you have the silver arrows,
they'll die with just one hit! After defeating them, go north.

Open the chests to get some bombs...some arrows...and the big key! Go
to the previous room, then go west, then upstairs. Push aside the right
block then open the big chest to get the final item: The Red Mail. "This
provides even more protection than the Blue Mail!". Go to the north
room, then go back upstairs. [NOTE: You can continue exploring the rest
of this floor if you want to find the map...but you probably won't need
it if you're using this walkthrough :) ]

Now go up through the center staircase to 3F. Get around to the left
side of this room and push the upper block to open the door. In the next
room, you need to use arrows to defeat the two red guys to open the
door. You can use the statue to block the spikey thing while you defeat
them.

Same thing in the next room: Defeat the enemies to open the door. Be
careful to avoid the lasers from the eyes on the statues. Keep going...
until you pass through the big door.

Go down the steps, past the two spike traps, then hit the crystal orb.
Defeat the two cyclops monsters to get them out of your way. Lift the
pots at the back to reveal a switch, then step on it to open the door.
Get up there and go to the next room...

Cross this strip of land while avoiding the cannonballs. It's tricky,
but it can be done. When you reach the other side, go up the stairs to
4F.

A whole bunch of monsters! Defeat them all to open the door, then go on
to the next room. Same consept there, defeat all the enemies (except the
statue) to open the door). And for the NEXT THREE ROOMS, defeat all the
enemies to open the doors. Don't keep still for too long do you can
avoid the lasers from the statues.

Eventually, you'll reach the room where you'll fight the second mini-
boss, the lanmolas (remember them? from the desert palace?). They aren't
very hard at all. I think it only takes two or three hits to defeat each
one. This time you'll need to avoid the fireballs from the thing at the
bottom-left. After you defeat them, go into the north room, then up the
stairs to 5F.

Use Ether to reveal the invisible path. If you use Ether while all the
wizards are visible, you'll defeat them all and the door will open!
Hitting two birds with one stone. In the next room, be careful to avoid
the lasers coming from the eyes on the wall. In the room after that, use
Ether again to defeat all the wizards and open the door.

Dash across the path to get over it before it collapses. In the next
room, throw away all the pots that are blocking the torches. You need to
light all the torches (prefferably using the fire rod) to open the door
at the bottom of the room. Go up the stairs in the next room to 6F.

Now you need to light the four torches with the firerod to make the door
open. You'll need to hurry up too because the floor will start
disolving! First light the one at the lower-right, then the lower-left,
then light the two upper torches. Proceed to the next room.

Kill the enemies (preferably by throwing pots at them) to find a small
key inside on of them. Us it to go to the next room. Now throw a bomb
onto the conveyer belt so that it moves left and blows open a hole in
the south wall. Carefully slip past the spiked traps and go on to the
next room. Hit the crystal orbs to get to the center and open the chest
for a small key. If you're low on energy, sprinkle magic powder on the
red enemies to turn them into fairies.

In the next room you'll have to face the third and final mini-boss of
this dungeon: Moldorm. He's just the same as the Moldorm you faced in
the Tower of Hera. Be careful not to fall into the pits, or else you'll
have to make the journey back up here! After you defeat it, a chest
appears on a south platform. Use the hookshot to pull yourself over
there (it's just a red rupee in that chest). Go up the steps, push the
blocks, and go into the door...

This room is dangerous, use bombos to instantly kill all the enemies.
Then make your way north and up the final staircase to the seventh, and
final, floor.

Follow the carpet. Behind this big door is the real boss of this
dungeon. If you're prepared, go ahead and face the boss of Ganon's
Tower: AGAHNIM. Yes, it's him again. See the boss section for details.
After the battle, Agahnim's body falls to the ground, and out comes the
evil king of darkness, Ganon.


                         -- THE FINAL BATTLE --


Ganon transforms into a bat and crashes into the pyramid at the center
of the Dark World. You'll be brought there too, with the aid of the
flute bird. To get ready for the fight with Ganon, I suggest you buy at
least one bottle of green potion from the Magic Shop in the Light World
(a bottle of red potion would be a great help too). You also need the
silver arrows. Drop into the hole atop the pyramid to face the final
boss: GANON. For the last time, check out the boss section for details.
When Ganon is defeated, go to the light to meet the essence of the
Triforce.

And the game is done.

                             ~  The End  ~


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 5) BOSSES                                                            |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


Eastern Palace -- ARMOS KNIGHTS

There are six Armos Knights for you to defeat. Apparently, they have no
legs and are therefore forced to hop around. Their first movement
pattern is hopping around in a circle (isn't that cute...). Just stay at
the bottom right corner, face up, and fire arrows at them like mad. It
only takes three arrows to kill one of them (and you can also use the
sword when you rin out of arrows). Next, they will form a wall and come
hopping towards you, followed by more hopping in a circle. Just fire
arrows at them with every oppurtunity you get. The last Armos Knight
standing will get tough and turn red. He'll bounce at your current
position, so never stay in one place for long. Keep shooting arrows at
him and he's gone in just three hits.


Desert Palace -- LANMOLAS

The Lanmolas are large worm-like monsters that pop out of the ground and
go back inside. You can see where they will pop out because of the dark
soil that appears. When a Lanmola pops out, stones fly out of that spot
in 4 diagonal directions, so you should stay above, below, to the left,
or to the right of it when it comes out. The only way to hurt them is by
hitting them in the head with the sword. I find it effective to charge
up the sword, then to do a spin attack when you're close to the
Lanmola's head. Remember to stay clear of the rocks that come flying
out! It takes a while, and eventually the Lanmola will die. The last one
left is a little bit trickier...rocks fly out in all eight directions,
so you'll need to be even more careful to avoid them.


Tower of Hera - MOLDORM

The Moldorm is a giant worm-like monster that moves around randomly.
Since you are fighting on a platform like this one, you need to be
careful not to fall off. If you do, you'll go down to the fifth floor
and need to come back and start all over. Hit weak spot is the tail, so
you should go for it with the sword. Try not to hit any other parts of
his body, because you will bounce off and you might fall off the
platform. After hitting him five times, he goes really crazy and moves
around much faster than before. One more hit is all it takes to defeat
him.


Hyrule Castle - AGAHNIM

Agahnim is the wizard that has been making the girls disappear. He
attacks by throwing energy balls at you. After that, he warps to another
position and does it again. The master sword doesn't hurt him directly--
you need to hit the energy balls that come at you so that they bounce
back to him! But be careful when he shoots a bunch of small blue balls
at you, you just need to get out of their way. When Agahnim positions
himself at the top-center of the screen, he's going to do a lightning
attack so you better get out of his way! It takes around 6 or 7 hits to
defeat him. (Note: Strangely, you can also use the bug catching net to
deflect his attacks. Weird, eh?)


Palace of Darkness - KING HELMASAUR

King Helmasaur is just like the little Helmasaurs you see all over the
dungeons. But this one is the king! In the first part of the battle, you
need to break open the hard purple shell that's protecting him. Keep
hitting it with the magic hammer. He moves forward and backward. Don't
hit him when he's moving towards you or you'll get hurt. When his tail
shakes around quickly, he's about to try whipping you, so get close to
his face to avoid getting hurt. Occasionally, a fireball comes out of
his mouth, splits into 3 pieces, and each of those pieces splits into
four fireballs. Be careful to avoid that. It takes 17 hits to destroy
his purple shell. After that, hit his face with the sword to hurt him.
He moves around much faster now, and he's a lot harder to hit without
getting hurt yourself. The attacks of fireballs and tail whips continue.
After breaking his helmet, it takes about 9 hits to defeat him. I'm not
sure exactly, I lost count :P


Swamp Palace - ARRGHUS

The Arrghus is a huge eyeball-jellyfish creature surrounded by small
spongy balls. In the first part of the battle, you need to destroy the
sponges. Stand at a distance from him and use the hookshot to pull one
of the sponges to you. Then slash away with the sword to destroy it.
Every few seconds, the sponges will form a wider circle and spin around
fast. Be sure to keep your distance. After you've destroyed all 13
sponges, it's time to destroy the Arrghus itself. Now that it's all
alone, it leaps into the sky for a few seconds...then comes crashing
down. It will try to land on you, so never stay in one place for more
than a second. When it's bouncing around the room, hit it with the
sword. Then it leaps into the air again and repeats the process. It
takes 9 hits and he's completely defeated.


Skull Dungeon - MOTHULA

The Mothula is a big moth creature...but it's only half of the danger
of the battle. You'll have so many obstacles and dangers around you that
it's hard to concentrate. The room's floor is moving in random
directions, the spike traps are constantly moving across the room, the
Mothula shoots fire thingys at you, and you'll also need to avoid the
Mothula itself. I pray that you have fairies in your bottles, you'll
need them! At first you should attack the Mothula with the fire rod, but
you're bound to run out of magic quickly. When you run out of magic
power, just attack like crazy with the sword. The real challenge here is
avoiding the hordes of traps all around you. The spikes shake a bit
before they move, but I doubt you'll even notice it since you're
concentrating on the boss itself. There's not much more advice I can
give you. May the force be with you.


Blind's Hideout - BLIND THE THIEF

Blind look's like the devil wearing a big pillowcase. At the beginning
of the battle, Blind moves around at the top of the screen, stopping
every few seconds to shoot a laser beam out of his eyes (watch the
direction he's facing). After a while he'll move to the bottom of the
screen. Hit him in the head with the sword to hurt him...then he'll
shoot lots of little red fireballs out of his head. After 3 hits, the
head will detach and fly all around the room with fireballs coming out
of his head. Another head will grow on the body and the battle
continues. Repeat the process...eventually you'll have two heads
floating around the room and fireballs flying everywhere. It's complete
chaos. This is my strategy: Bring the red/blue potion and slash at him
like crazy, ignoring the fireballs and any damage taken. Hopefully he
will die before you do.


Ice Palace - KHOLDSTARE

Kholdstare is a some kind of puffy pink eyeball that's initially frozen
in ice. During the entire battle with him, blocks of ice will fall from
the ceiling and split into 4 pieces upon hitting the ground. First, you
need to get Kholdstare out of the ice by shooting fire at him (with the
Fire Rod) 8 times. Then he devides into 3 eyeballs and they move around
the room in random directions. Just slash away with them with your
sword. The ice blocks will continue to fall from the ceiling,
complicating matters. This may seem like an easy fight, especially
compared to the previous two boss battles...until you realize that every
hit from the eyeballs costs you three whole hearts (and that would be
six hearts if you're wearing the green armor)! Just keep hitting it with
the sword until all three eyeballs are destroyed.


Misery Mire - VITREOUS

Vitreous is a slimy eyeball that's surrounded by a lot of smaller
eyeballs. At the beginning of the battle, the eyeballs will come
bouncing towards you. This is a piece of cake: Simply hit them with the
sword as they come charging at you. It's like they're inviting you to
kill them. But watch out when the large eyeball become's white, it's
about to do a huge lightning attack. Just move to the side to avoid it.
Also be careful not to get hit by the small eyeballs, a hit from them
costs you three hearts. After all the little eyeballs are destroyed,
it's time to battle the big eye. He's not much of a challenge either, as
he just comes bouncing towards you like the small eyeballs. What a wimp!
Take care of him just like you did with the smaller eyeballs: Use the
sword. It takes 16 hits using the sword. It takes only 8 hits using the
bow and arrows.


Turtle Rock - TRINEXX

Trinexx looks like a turtle with three heads. For the first part of the
battle, you will be fighting the blue and red heads. The red head
attacks with fire, and the blue head attacks with ice. Also, the floor
turns to ice whenever the blue head attacks. You need to attack the red
head with the ice rod to stun him, then slash like crazy with the sword.
He will only stay stunned for a short while, so you will need to stun
him again after a few seconds. Repeat that process until that head is
defeated. Then do the same thing to the blue head, except use the fire
rod instead of the ice rood. When both heads are dead, the whol creature
will *seem* to be defeated...but stand back because it's still alive!
Now the shell is gone and it looks like the Muldorm from Hera's Tower,
except this guy's weak spot is his flashing segment in the middle. Be
careful, he really comes after you! Keep attacking the middle segment
until he's completely defeated.


Ganon's Tower -- AGAHNIM

Yeah, it's the same guy you battled in Hyrule Castle. But this battle is
a bit different from the last one. At the very beginning, Agahnim will
create two clones of himself. Keep your eye on the one in the center,
that's the real one. All three Agahnims will be shooting energy balls
at you, which you must deflect back to Agahnim (the real one). They'll
also be shooting some blue balls that split up and hurt you. The real
Agahnim flashes when the energy balls hit him, but the energy balls
simply go through the clones. There's no way to damage the Agahnim
clones, so don't waste your time trying. Fortunately, there's no
lightning attack this time. After enough hits, Agahnim's body falls to
the ground, and out comes Ganon.


GANON

This is it. The final boss. At the beginning, hit Ganon with the sword
at every chance you get. He will throw his staff around and teleport all
over the room. Just keep on hitting him while avoiding the flying staff.
After 6 or 7 hits, he will start creating fire bats that will fly at
you one by one. The bats only fly in a straight line, so just keep
moving and they won't get you. Continue hitting Ganon at every chance
you get. Soon he'll reach the next stage: He stomps on the ground and
makes the tiles at the sides fall down. Now you'll have to worry about
not falling in the pits. When all the sides are gone, the room will turn
dark and Ganon is now invisible. Watch out for the chains of fire that
he sends flying across the room. Use the fire rod and light the two
torches at the bottom to make Ganon visible again. Hit him with the
sword to stun him. While he's blue, shoot him with an arrow (by the way,
you need the silver arrows to hurt him). It takes three silver arrows
to finally defeat him.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 6) HEART PIECE LOCATIONS                                             |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


Pieces of Heart are scattered all around the Hyrule. There are 24 of
them in all. 12 in the Light World, 12 in the Dark World. You don't have
to get all of them. In fact, you can beat the game without getting any
of them at all! After you get 4 pieces, you gain a whole heart
container.


1. KAKARIKO VILLAGE (Light World). Go to the north-west part of the
village, just before the entrance to the Lost Woods. Drop off the cliff
and into the hole. Get all the treasures and use a bomb on the upper
wall (a crack is just barely visible). The treasure chest here holds a
piece of heart.

2. KAKARIKO VILLAGE (Light World). In the north part of the village, go
in the house with a green leavy roof. Go downstairs and bomb the crack
in the northern wall. Inside the chest in this next room is the coveted
piece of heart.

3. SOUTH OF THE VILLAGE (Light World). A little bit south of the
village, there's a long house with a red roof. Inside, bomb the wall and
continue to the next room, then go outside. The girl there says she'll
give you something good if you reach the goal in under 15 seconds. Hurry
up and go through the maze! Reach the guy in less than 15 seconds to
recieve a piece of heart.

4. LOST WOODS (Light World). In the eastern part of the lost woods,
there's a very curious looking 3 x 3 block of bushes. Cut them up to
reveal a hole in the center. Drop down there are collect your piece of
heart.

5. NEAR THE SANCTUARY (Light World). On a small cliff west of the
Sanctuary, there's a bunch of light green rocks. Go there and dash into
the rocks with the pegasus boots. Go down those stairs and open the
chest for a piece of heart.

6. SWAMPY GRASSY PLACE (Light World). South of your house is the "swampy
grassy place", and there's a small structure there. Go inside. Push
aside the blocks and go on to the next room. Pull the right switch to
release the water, then go outside. There's the heart piece.

7. DESERT (Light World). In the northeast part of the desert, go inside
a cave. Follow the path until you get to a room with an old man. Use a
bomb to blow open a crack at the south part of this room. Inside the
chest is your precious piece of heart.

8. DESERT (Light World). Exit the Desert Palace through the west exit,
the continue going down and you'll find a piece of heart beside a
vulture.

9. ZORA'S WATERFALL (Light World). After meeting with King Zora, go
straight south and fall down the water fall. Take the path of shallow
water to the land where you'll find a piece of heart.

10. DEATH MOUNTAIN (Light World). Climb Death Mountain to the very top.
When you reach the cave to enter Spectacle Rock, do NOT enter it.
Instead drop of the ledge so you can enter the cave below. Follow the
path and you'll eventually get to a piece of heart.

11. DEATH MOUNTAIN (Light World). Enter the warp at the top of Death
Mountain. Go left a little bit and stand on the area where Spectacle
Rock is in the Light World. Use that magic mirror there to go to the
Light World, and you'll be standing on the rock with the heart piece.

12. LUMBERJACK'S HOUSE (Light World). Northeast of Kakariko Village is a
lumberjack's house. At the beginning of the game, you'll see the two
lumberjacks cutting a tree. After you beat Agahnim the tree will be
colored an odd shade of green. Dash into the tree and fall inside.
Follow the path to the heart piece.

13. PYRAMID OF POWER (Dark World). It can be clearly seen at the east
side of the Pyramid of Power. Drop off of the ledge at the second floor
to get to it.

14. LAKE HYLIA (Dark World). In the Lake Hylia of the Light World, you
can see a heart piece on an island with no way to get to it. Go to the
exact same place in the Dark World and you'll find a patch of shallow
water. Use the Magic Mirror there and you'll be on top of the island in
the Light World! Collect your piece of heart.

15. NEAR THE BOMB SHOP (Dark World). From the bomb shop, go south-east
until you get to the area just south of the Flute Boy place. You should
find a circle of bushes there. Stand in the center of those bushes and
use the Magic Mirror. The piece of heart is in the cave.

16. VILLAGE OF OUTCASTS (Dark World). Go to the building with a picture
of a chest on it. In this place, you can pay 30 rupees and open two
chests. One of those chests contains a piece of heart. The position
seems to be random, so you'll just need to get lucky.

17. CEMETERY (Dark World). Go to the cemetary, east of where the
Sanctuary should be. Go up the steps on the back wall. On that platform,
use the magic mirror. Enter the cave. Toss away the pots and bomb the
wall at the back of the room. You'll find the heart piece in the next
room.

18. DIGGING GAME (Dark World). Go to the place south of the village
where there was the "15 second race" game in the Light World. Now
there's a digging game: For 80 rupeees, you get 30 seconds to dig for
treasure in a field. If you play, you might dig up a piece of heart!
(but it took me more than 10 minutes of digging before I found it)

19. SMITHY SHOP (Dark World). Go to the place where the Smithy Shop
(blacksmith) was in the Light World. You'll find a field with a lot of
posts sticking out of the ground. Smash every one of them with the Magic
Hammer. Go down the stairs that appear and get the heart piece.

20. SWAMP OF EVIL (Dark World). There's another cave just to the left of
the entrance to Misery Mire. Inside, push the blocks around to get to
the chests. The one at the left holds a piece of heart.

21. SWAMP OF EVIL (Dark World). Go to the upper-right corner of the
Swamp of Evil (the area where Misrey Mire is). While standing on the dry
land, use the magic mirror to transport to the Light World. Lift the big
stone here and go down the stairs. Push the blocks around to get to the
Piece of Heart.

22. DEATH MOUNTAIN (Dark World). Go to the place that used to be the
entrance to Death Mountain in the Light World. The sign outside reads
"I'll give a piece of heart to whoever wears the cape". Go in the cave,
then go upstairs. Use the hookshot to pull yourself over the gap. Then
use the magic cape to go through the bumper. The heart piece awaits on
the ledge outside.

23. DEATH MOUNTAIN (Dark World). While you are going through the Turtle
Rock dungeon, there's a point where you exit and reach a narrow ledge
outside. Go to the right door and use the magic mirror to appear on a
ledge in the Light World. Go in the cave. Defeat the enemies to open the
door. Smash the 'digletts' into the ground. Open the chest in the next
room for a piece of heart.

24. DEATH MOUNTAIN (Dark World). A few screens to the east of Ganon's
Tower, there's a cave with a big stone in front of it. Lift the stone
to reveal a stairway, then go inside. Walk north to the end of the path.
If you use Ether, you'll see an invisible path for a moment. Go across
that path and into the door at the end. In the next room, go left...then
go outside. Use the magic mirror to warp to the Light World, right
beside a piece of heart.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 7) ITEMS                                                             |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< Y BUTTON ITEMS >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


BOW AND ARROWS:
Ahh...an old favorite. You first find the Bow and Arrows in the Eastern
Palace. It can be used to defeat enemies, and some enemies can only be
defeated with the arrows. There is a limited number of arrows you can
carry. You can increase this amount my throwing rupees into the fountain
in the cave in Lake Hylia (Light World). Additionally, the regular
arrows can be upgraded to silver arrows near the end of the game.

BOOMERANG:
You find the boomerang in the dungeons of Hyrule Castle at the beginning
of the game. It's a nice weapon for attacking enemies (it only stuns
them), and it can also be used for fetching items like rupees in hard to
reach places. This can later be upgraded to the red boomerang, which
stretches all the way across the screen!

HOOKSHOT:
You get this item in the 2nd dungeon of the Dark World. I like to keep
this equipped when I'm not using other items. It's primary use it to
grapple onto distant objects and pull yourself towards them...especially
when you need to get across gaps. It's also a decent weapon for stunning
enemies (just like the boomerang).

BOMB:
Bombs can be found all over Hyrule. In chests, enemies, stores, and
bushes. Lay it down on the floor and it will blow up in a few seconds.
It's especially useful for blowing holes in walls or floors. You can
usually see a crack in the wall if it's explodable. It can also be used
for attacking enemies, but it's pretty ineffective. You can increase the
total number of bombs you can carry by throwing rupees into the fountain
in the cave in Lake Hylia (Light World). Don't forget to stand back when
the bomb explodes!

MUSHROOM/MAGIC POWDER:
You'll see a mushroom when you first go into the Lost Woods. There's
nothing you can do with it right now. Bring it to the magic shop in the
east. Give it to the witch there and she will brew up some magic powder
for you. The magic powder doesn't run out as long as your magic meter
isn't empty. Don't waste it. It can be used for a lot of wierd stuff.

FIRE ROD:
You find this weapon in the 3rd dungeon of the Dark World. It was a great
weapon in Link's Awakening where it didn't use up any magic power. In
this game, a bit of magic is used up with each use of the magic rod, so
don't overuse it. It's used for lighting torches. I wouldn't waste it on
enemies if I were you.

ICE ROD:
This item is found in a cave east of Lake Hylia (if I remember
correctly). Like the fire rod, it uses up some magic power. It turns
enemis to ice when you use it on them. Here's a neat trick: Freeze an
enemy with the ice rod, then smash him with the hammer. You'll get a
magic jar!

BOMBOS:
This is one of the three "magical medallions" in the game. When you use
this one, the magic of the medallion sets off explosive forces around
you that engulfs the enemies in flames. It uses up a LOT of your magic
power, so I rarely use this for anything except for seeing the cool
effects :)

ETHER:
This is the second magical medallion. You'll need this to open up the
entrance to the swamp dungeon in the Dark World. When you use it, all
the enemies on screen are turned to ice in a spectacular light show. Of
course, such an amazing display of power doesn't come for free. That's
right, it sucks away at your magic meter.

QUAKE:
The third of the magical megallions. It is used to damage all the 
enemies on screen by seting off an momentus earthquake (duh, it's called
"quake"). It's also required to open up the turtle rock dungeon. Does it
use up your magic power? Hell yes.

LAMP:
This is the first item you should get in the game...it's in the chest in
your house as soon as you begin! This will be very useful for lighting
torches in dark rooms to light them up. Warning, it does use up a small
bit of your magic power. The firerod also lights torches, but the lamp
can do it with much less magic used.

MAGIC HAMMER:
This is quite a powerful weapon, but you need to be close to the enemy
when you use it. It's mainly used for smashing pegs and those cute
"digletts" in the palace of darkness. The turtle-like enemies must be
flipped over with the hammer so you can attack their soft underbelly.

SHOVEL/FLUTE:
In the Dark World, go to the grove of trees west of your house and talk
to the wierd-looking guy that now sits on the stump. Get the shovel from
him and go back to the same grove of trees in the Light World. Dig in
the top-left part where some flowers are to get the flute. Return to the
Dark World and play it to him. Tada! He's a tree! Now play it in front
of the weather vane in the village (Light World). Now you can use this
bird to transport you to any of eight different locations (only in the
Light World!).

BUG-CATCHING NET:
You get this from the sick boy in Kakariko Village. It can be used to
catch bees and fairies and store them in your bottles. Curiously, it can
also be used to deflect the energy balls in the battle with Agahnim.

BOOK OF MUDORA:
This book is on top of a high shelf in the library. Ram into the shelf
with the pegasus boots to knock it down to the floor. This book is used
to translate ancient Hylian writings so you can read them. Just use the
book when you're standing in front of the sign.

MAGIC BOTTLE:
Bottles are used for storing things like bees, fairies, and magic
potions. To drink a potion or use a fairy/bee, equip the bottle and
press Y. I always keep the bottles full of the blue potion. Here's where
to find the four magic bottles...
    1 - In Kakariko Village (light world), buy it from a man for 100
        rupees.
    2 - In Kakariko Village (light world), enter the long house from
        the back entrance and open the chest.
    3 - Get it for free from a man living under a bridge south-east of
        Hyrule Castle in the light world.
    4 - Get the chest from the smithy shop in the Dark World, then go to
        the desert in the Light World. Show it to the man beside the
        sign and he'll open it for you.

CANE OF SOMARIA:
This is a red cane with the power to miraculously create blocks. Pretty
useless for most of the game, except for a few dungeons at the end. You
can use it to hold down a switch or to create platforms in the Turtle
Rock dungeon. It uses a little magic power.

CANE OF BYRNA:
This cane is colored blue and it surrounds you with a shield of light
when you use it. While this light is around you, you're invincible! This
would be a great item if it didn't suck away your magic power so
furiously. I don't think you need to use this item at all during the
game.

MAGIC CAPE:
The magic cape makes Link invisible (but you can still see the shadow).
In addition to being invisible, you are also unharmed from all enemy
attacks...including spikes! It does use a lot of magic though.

MAGIC MIRROR:
This important item is used to transport from the Dark World to the
Light World...which you be doing a lot of in this game. It does NOT
bring you from the Light World to the Dark World. If you're in a dungeon
you can use this to transport yourself back to the entrance.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< EQUIPMENT >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


SWORD:
This is Link's weapon of choice. Use it with the B button. Hold B to
charge up the sword then release to do a spin attack. There are 4
different levels of sword. The first one comes from your uncle. The
second one, the Master Sword, is from the Lost Woods after you get all
three pendants. The third one, the Tempered Sword, is from the Smithys
in the Dark World. The final one, the Golden Sword, comes from the fat
fairy in the Dark World.

SHIELD:
The shield is equipped automatically and is also used automatically when
something is about to hit you. The first sword is from your uncle. The
second one (the Red Shield) is from the fairy behind the waterfall and
can protect you from fireballs. The third one (the Mirror Shield) is
found in Turtle Rock and can deflect lasers.

CLOTHING:
Your clothing serves as your armor. The better your clothing, the better
your defence is. Link starts out with the standard green cloths, then
he gets a stylish blue suit from the Ice Palace, and finally a lovely
red costume from Ganon's Tower. The Blue Mail cuts damage by 25%, and
the Red Mail cuts damage by 50%. So if you normally lose one heart from
an enemy attack while wearing the Green Tunic, you will only lose a half
heart with the Red Mail.

PEGASUS BOOTS:
The Pegasus Boots, aside from speeding up long walks, can be used to ram
down some cracks walls. It's also great for attacking enemies and
shaking rupees out of trees. Sahasrahla gives it to you after you show
him the pendant of courage.

POWER GLOVE:
The power glove is used to pick up big rocks and other heavy objects.
The first one is found in the desert palace. There's also a stronger
version of the power glove called "Titan's Mitt". It can be found in the
Blind's Hideout dungeon.

FLIPPERS:
The flippers allow you to swim in deep water. Get them from Zora at
Zora's Waterfall. It's a bargain at only 500 rupees! This is one of the
few times you'll actually use those rupees anyway, so go ahead and fork
it over to him.

MOON PEARL:
The Moon Pearl is an extremely important item. It prevents you from
turning into a rabbit when you go to the Dark World. Weird, I know. What
will those crazy Japanese think of next? As a bunny, you cannot use your
sword or any items at all besides the magic mirror. The Moon Pearl is
found in the Tower of Hera.


        wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
        <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<<< OTHER ITEMS >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
        mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm


RUPEES:
This is the currency of Hyrule. It's used to buy things at every store.
You can get rupees by defeating enemies, looking in grasses and pots,
or winning in mini-games. You'll rarely use them in the game, besides
the 500 rupees for the flippers. Different colored rupees have different
values...
                               green rupee = 1
                               blue rupee  = 5
                               red rupee   = 20

MAGIC JARS:
These things sometimes come out of enemies when you defeat them, and can
also be found in jars. A smal jar restores a small bit of your magic,
and a big one fills up the whole meter. Here's a neat trick: Freeze an
enemy with the ice rod, then smash him with a hammer. A magic jar comes
out!

HEARTS:
This is the measure of Link's energy. When you run out, you're dead.
Extra hearts can be found in pots, bushes, and enemies when you defeat
them. Link loses hearts when he's hurt by an enemy.

PIECES OF HEART:
These things can be found all over Hyrule in secret places, some more
secret than others. After collecting 4 pieces of heart, Link gains a
whole extra heart container. There are 24 heart pieces in all in the
game.

HEART CONTAINERS:
A heart container increases Link's maximum capacity of hearts. Just like
in other RPG's when the HP increases as you gain more levels. Four
pieces of heart equal one heart container. Whole heart containers come
out of major bosses when they're defeated.

COMPASS:
This item is used together with the map in dungeons. When you have the
compass, the map shows your location and the location of the dungeon
boss. There's a compass in every dungeon.

MAP:
There's also a map in every dungeon. When you have it, press the X
button to look at it. It shows the different rooms of the dungeon (on
all floors) and your current position.

KEYS:
There are some locked doors in dungeons that require a key for you to
pass through. Your answer: Use a small key! There are also bigger doors
that require the big key (a.k.a. boss key). These doors usually lead to
the boss.

PENDANTS:
There are three pendants for you to find in the Light World: The Pendant
of Courage, the Pendant of Power, and the Pendant of Wisdom. When these
three combine, the seal guarding the master sword is broken and you can
get it.

CRYSTALS:
Agahnim has sealed the seven delicious maidens, including Princess
Zelda, in crystals hidden deep within the dungeons of the Dark World.
Your goal in the Dark World is to get these sevel crystals. Then their
power can combine to break the seal guarding Ganon's Tower.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 8) SECRETS                                                           |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


This is a special section of the guide. Here you'll find a list of
things to do in the game that do not give you any rewards, or affect the
outcome of the game. It's here to make you appreciate the game more.


- I guess this isn't really a secret since so many people know about
it... In Kakariko Village there are some chickens. How can you resist?
Slash away with the sword! After about 30 hits, the chicken's family
will fly in to get revenge! Be careful with this trick, the chickens CAN
peck you to death!

- In the south-west part of Kakariko Village, there's a small hut with
no doors and absolutely no way to get inside...or is there? Place a bomb
in the center of the wall to blow open an entrance. Inside there's a
bunch of pots with bombs and arrows inside. This is a useful place to
stock up on supplies.

- Here's a neat trick to do whenever you're running low on magic power:
Use the ice rod to freeze an enemy, then use the magic hammer on it to
smash it to pieces. Tada! The result is a magic jar to refill your magic
meter.

- In Kakariko Village, there's a man that runs away from you really fast
whenever you try to get close to him. If you have the pegasus boots, you
can chase after him and actually catch him. He'll say that you must be
really fast to kidnap Zelda, and he gives you a mildly helpfup tip...

- The running man (above) gives you this tip. All around Hyrule, you can
bash into trees witht he Pegasus Boots to make small goodies fall out
like rupees, hearts, and sometimes even a fairy.

- South of your house is a "swampy grassy place", and there's a small
structure there. Go inside. Push aside the blocks and go on to the next
room. Pull the right switch to release the water, then go outside.
There's a fish out of water! Do the honorable thing: Pick up the fish,
go one screen up and throw him back into the deep water. He'll give you
a red rupee as a reward.

- In the "swampy grassy place", there's a rabbit that hops in and out of
the grass. At least, I *think* it's a rabbit. Anyway... when he jumps
out of the grass, cut the grass underneath him. He'll get stuck. Touch
him and he will say, "All right! Take it, theif!". What the hell? He
gives a fairie, ruppee, heart, bombs, arrows, magic jars, and other
random items.

- You can often find "red bubbly enemies" bouncing around in dungeons.
These annoying bitches can be deadly! But there is a way to use them to
your advantage. Sprinkle some magic powder on it and POOF! It's a fairy!

- You know how you need to deflect Agahnim's attacks with the Master
Sword? There's another weapon that does the job just as effectivly: The
bug catching net! You can use the bug catching net in the battles with
Agahnim!

- In the center of Lake Hylia there's an island with a cave inside. In
the cave, there is a pond that you can throw rupees in. For every 100
rupees that you throw in, a big fairy will appear and give you a choice
of increasing your maximum capacity of bombs or arrows. Arrow capacity
can be increased from 30 to 70, and bomb capacity from 10 to 50! The
total cost of upgrades is well over 1000 rupees!

- Trivia: In the game's ending credits, a slow ballad of the classic
Zelda theme begins to play when sound composer Koji Kondo's name
appears. Sweet.


,----------------------------------------------------------------------.
| 9) CREDITS & INFO                                                    |
'----------------------------------------------------------------------'


Special thanks to...
   - Nintendo for making this game and never letting me down
   - gamefaqs.com for posting all my FAQs. This is my 11th so far.
   - www.world-of-nintendo.com for the instruction manual


NOTE TO WEBMASTERS:
You may freely place this document on non-profit websites without
explicit permission from the author as long as (1) it is not modified at
all and (2) I recieve full credit. Take note that any future
updates will be sent only to gamefaqs.com.

REGARDING FEEDBACK:
Before coming to me with questions, please make sure that it's not
already answered in this guide. And make sure you're looking at the most
recent version of the guide (always available at www.gamefaqs.com). All
feedback goes to mpgonzalez@gmail.com.

For news about the progress of my FAQs, and announcements of future
projects, visit my site at http://www.geocities.com/coffeefaqs.

Copyright (c) Michael Gonzalez 2004


Restore Page

Manage Cookies